---
datetime: 2023-04-12T08:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
participants:
  - RazvanD
  - StefanJ
  - Cezar
  - RaduN
---

### Agenda

Overview of last year mistakes.
Proposals for this year.
Decide on a date.

### Discussions

Problems from last year:

- To less time for too much information.
- Date, too late in the summer.
- Many people were overwhelmed, they were not aware of what they need to know beforehand.
- Too many sessions, too much time commitment needed.

**Proposals:**

Initial quiz.
Some easy tasks on basic Linux/C skills (e.g. create a Makefile for these files, start this kernel image using `qemu`, etc.).

We could do it in 2 weeks, 3 sessions per week.
We should shrink the sessions to 3h.
We should tone down the sessions a lot, it's too much information.
First sessions should only be for setup / using stuff, nothing code-related.
First session should be to make sure the setup is done, everything should just work (either using scripts or kraftkit).

**Schedule:**
Beginning of the summer, likely 3-15 July.
Hackathon in the 15-16 July weekend.
Will be on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, to avoid overlapping with the Security Summer School at UPB.

**Sessions proposal:**

- Setup
- Behind the scenes, configuring, building, etc.
- First steps in changing the code
- Binary Compatibility
- Debugging
- Native Port

The Order could change.

There will be issues with people using `git` and `GitHub`, we could add the [git immersion](https://gitimmersion.com/) tutorial as part of the requirements, we could also add a git guide on the docs website.

### TODOs and Decisions

Everyone: Create tasks git the initial quiz.

SJ: Create landing page on the website.

SJ: Put together a list of work items.

RD: Find volunteers to work on stuff.
