---
title: "KraftKit WG, October 19, 2022"
tags: unikraft, kraft
datetime: 2022-10-19T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- ȘtefanJ
- Alex
- Cezar
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

SJ: I looked into the `ukrun` feature.

SJ: I will create PRs in the few days to `ukbuild` for the prepare and fetch steps.

SJ: `ukrun` seems to leave some processes lingering.

AJ: When you invok` kraft run` it looks for a file.
If file does not exist, it creates a subprocess.
It checks previous instances and their versions.

AJ: `kraft events` will constantly poll the events.
At this point, if the process runs, it continues to exist.
So there is likely a process that doesn't close correctly.

SJ: It works for me.

AJ: For debugging, I would use a separate terminal and I would use `kraft events`.

AJ: If the instance still dies, `kraft events` should work on your terminal.

CC: I am working on the index file that replaces the need of t GitHub token.

AJ: The server needs to support gzip.

CC: It does support it.

AJ: It's worth putting in some prints to debugging.

AJ: You could use a `kraftkit` string as the `User-agent` that would be useful.

CC: Alex said we would create a script `.sh` that would be curled and piped into Bash.

AJ: I am fixing a lot of bugs.

AJ: I'm looking into containerd integration.

AJ: The next step is do to networking.

AJ: Bugs had to do with parsing the schema, the text user interface.

AJ: With the installation process (the web install script).

AJ: Cezar, consider goreleaser.com.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Ping students.

CC: Fix bug with HTTP server.

CC: Work on `.sh` script that would be used to do everything automatically in the command line.

CC: Look on my PRs for krafkit.
