---
title: "Kraftkit, September 21, 2022"
tags: unikraft, kraft, kraftkit
datetime: 2022-07-15T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- AlexJ
- AndreiA
- Costi
- Cezar
- RăzvanD
- ȘtefanJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

AJ: We have a couple of PRs that are open and issues that have been assigned: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/28

AJ: I worked on `kraft run`, it's largely working.

AJ: At this point we can also support ARM (32 and 64 bits).

SJ: I have two PRs open.

AJ: At the moment, we are manually approving PRs and merging them.

AJ: We are using merge commits.

CC: I plan to work on some worfklow items.

CR: I went through the starting tutorial.
I had some issues with the latest build items.
I looked on good first issues.
I'm looking on issue #35.

AA: During the last week I did polishing of scripts.

RD: Alex, what is the next ste for this?
Could / Should Andrei work on integrating his work?

AJ: For licensing reasons, we can't work on runu.

AJ: The parts that you have built, Andrei, we can use, but it's intermingled with code that we can't use.

AJ: For now we need to cross the networking bridge.
Then we can do the OpenFaaS thing, that is proprietary.

AJ: Work on `kraft run`.
This will be done in the next week or so.
This will mean more-or-less parity with kraft.

After `kraft run`, I will on containerd integration.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

Plan for release at end of October 2022.

AJ: Work on kraft run.

RD: Create test workgroup: 3-4 people

SJ: Continue work on PRs.

CC: Work on workflow issues.

CR: Work on issue #35.

AA: Aim to close work on OpenFaaS use case.

Everyone: Self-assign on issues you work on.

Everyone: Link PRs to issues you work on.
