---
datetime: 2022-04-06T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - kraft
participants:
  - Ștefan
  - Alex
  - Gabi
  - RăzvanD
  - AndreiA
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit Updates

### Discussions

AA: The whole pipeline is working with KVM.
I tested it with OpenFaaS integration.

AA: The `create` command requires a different parameter to identify the sandbox.

AA: There is an issue with Xen.

AJ: There will a way forward to integrate runu in kraftkit.

AJ: I look into the GitHub CLI to design a code layout.
Different executables will be created, in case one person (e.g. devops) only requires some (not all) of them.

AJ: We need to populate the subcommands.

AJ: I was able to commit quite a lot of code.
Before we get everyone involved in different tasks of the project is to create a manifest.
Manifest toy around with the idea: "How do we know what are the places where we retrieve libraries, Unikraft core etc."
We could have a `unikraft/index` repository with manifest files.

AJ: `kraft` works on a JSON schema file.

There is a JSON parser that we can use to validate the YAML files before loading that inside a structure of kraft.

See this: https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-go

AJ: My vision is: super-friendly to use.
And deep integration into Unikraft.
I'm imagining we'll create new ways to integrate with GCC, with Kconfig.

Because there are shared binaries, they will share the configuration file.
If you get to that point, we'll go to all different parts;
we make a list and go through it together to figure out which needs to be done first.

### TODOs and Decisions

AA: Create draft PR on the runu implementation.

AJ: Create manifest files.

AJ: Create tasks / items to work on.

SJ: Work on the YAML parser + JSON parser / validator.
Also take a critical view on the proposed YAML file.
