---
datetime: 2022-05-04T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - kraft
participants:
  - Alex
  - AndreiA
  - Gabi
  - ȘtefanJ
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit Updates

### Discussions
 
GM: This week I looked at the manifest structure, but I didn't understand if it will only have to use manifest for other plugins or if it will be something specific to Unikraft.

AJ: I move the manifest part from plugins.
It will be something specific to Unikraft.

SJ: I did a mockup command for upgrade

AJ: Would be nice to check if the packages are signed

SJ: The library I used for the upgrade command already check this

AA: I shift the work on Xen because it's a bug on deployment step
It's about a binary that should exist, but it cannot find it
I found a similar issue on Github and I tried to deploy the unikernel using only Kubernetes and the error changed a lot

AJ: Can't be a problem with the configuratio files?

AA: It can be something with the Kubernetes version.

AJ: I made some progress for pkgu
I get the package command work, also pull is available
We should be able to generate manifest files
We should be able to use our bot as an dependent bot, it should be a CI/CD for ukpkg to add in the manifest file list.
Rust Crates package manager has the same behavior in crates.io-index repo

### TODOs and Decisions

GM: Look into the the latest changes pushed by Alex

AJ: Push latest updates, include latest changes.

SJ: Continue to look into authentication management.

AA: Investigate the bug for runu
