---
datetime: 2022-04-27T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - kraft
participants:
  - Alex
  - AndreiA
  - Gabi
  - ȘtefanJ
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit Updates

### Discussions

SJ: At every kraft run it messages whether there is a new release.

SJ: For Unikraft it works, for kraftkit I am getting the older releases.

SJ: I plan to work on the commands for upgrade and checking for pre-release.
There is a pre-release tag and an annotation on GitHub.

SJ: About the commands, such as `kraftkit upgrade`.
On the GitHub CLI there is a root command.
Should we follow the same idea?

AJ: I can show you a tool that does exactly that.
https://github.com/concourse/concourse/blob/master/fly/commands/sync.go

AJ: The JSON validator for YAML is done.
It was a bit tricky because there are multiple ways to define attributes.

AJ: I added support for initrd in the YAML configuration file.

SJ: Could we make the repository public?
It is cumbersome to use a GitHub token.

AJ: At this point I don't want to make it public, it will cause confusion.
Let's get to a level of feature parity.

AJ: kraftkit should be able to hold on different tokens for different services.

AJ: Ștefan, look into authentication management.
Something with an interface like `kraft auth github`.
I don't know what should happen after this.

GM: I replicated the demo from Alex.
I plan to look into the manifest part.

AJ: I did initial structure of the manifest, I will push that.

AA: I removed the parts with the filesystem.
I need to build a unikraft image with networking support.
Since the networking is not enabled and it doesn't response.
This is for KVM.

AA: After that is done, I would need to do refactoring.

AJ: As soon as you have a working version of runu, please send it to me.

AA: This is the branch I'm working on: https://github.com/kubekraft/runu/tree/albisorua/networking
I expect things to work properly.

AJ: Largely, for packaging, all the abstract stuff is there.
Manifests are an implementation of the package manager.
The package manager will package everything together.

### TODOs and Decisions

SJ: Look into https://github.com/concourse/concourse/blob/master/fly/commands/sync.go for the "upgrade command"

SJ: Look into authentication management.

GM: Look into the manifest part.

AJ: Push latest updates, include latest changes.

AJ: Push all stuff dealing with packages.

AA: I will work on checking the networking still works.

AA: Clean up runu code.

AA: Work on filesystem support.
