---
datetime: 2023-03-08T12:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - kraft
participants:
  - Cezar
  - Antoine
  - AlexJ
  - ȘtefanJ
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit Updates

### Discussions

RD: I assembled to task force, we need some tasks for them.

AJ: Just use `kraftkit`.
And consider using the documentation on HackMd: https://hackmd.io/Uf2J-sgfTImByw9BYZNw8A

AJ: There have been several merges from Antoinne.
No major updates from my side.

AC: New user to kraftkit.
I managed a few issue that I fixed.

AC: I had issues with `libgit2` and that's fixed.

SJ: I submitted the `setup` PR.
Review from Cezar and Alex.

SJ: It needs quite some refactoring based on Alex's review.

CC: I've been working on an install script.
I'm refactoring it.
It's almost done, I'm having some issues with it.

CC: Then I'll submit a PR on the OSS repository.

AJ: You could build a GitHub workflow matrix to run the script on different distributions.

CC: I did some small reviews on PRs.

AJ: Lukas submitted a PR for the `kraft init` command.
The first step is to serialize the steps.
The changes are written back to the `kraft.yaml` file.

AJ: Issues that are missing are listed of GitHub issues or being handled.

### TODOs and Decisions

AJ: Do a pass on the networking support for kraftkit done by Cezar.

AJ: Submit different fixes.

AC: Continue battle testing.

CC: Submit PR for install script.

SJ: Refactor and integrate the `kraft setup` command based on feedback from Alex and Cezar.

RD: Provide tasks for task force.

RD: Have discussion with Andrei Albișoru about his involvement.
