---
title: "Kraftkit, February 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, kraft
datetime: 2023-02-15T12:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraftkit team
participants:
- Alexander Jung
- Cezar Craciunoiu
- Lukas
- Stefan Jumarea
---

## :dart: Agenda

- 0.4.0 Release
- Round

## :closed_book: Discussions


AJ: We can do a round everyone to see what we can discuss, apart from the 0.4 release

CC: Maybe Lukas can tell us how it went

Lukas: I'm using arch linux so the script doesn't work, but I got it fine to work by hand

AJ: Okay, we should include the new fixes to the install script

Lukas: Two more things, the documentation is nonexistent and also the fancy logging is not that helpful

AJ: Okay, we should maybe switch to basic by default for now

Lukas: I also had problems with running the images, it looks like docker, but not quite

AJ: We are still doing efforts on this, especially on networking, for now I'd recommend just using the qemu-guest script

Lukas: Do you have the intention to become sort of like a containerd daemon?

AJ: Eventually, yes, we have some work, but it's not open-source yet. We'd have to see the usecases.

CC: What is your use-case with kraftkit/unikraft?

Lukas: I'm in a student project for streaming from IoT devices. I talked a bit also in the community meeting.

CC: Okay, we can maybe do a round now.

SJ: I've been looking for virtualization in kraftkit. I tested it with Xen/Kvm/containerd, but not with unikernels yet.

SJ: I'll keep looking into this to see how it works.

Lukas: One more thing: there is this cache thing

AJ: Ah yes, we are caching downloads, but they are sometimes out of sync, so you need to delete them manually.

AJ: Eventually we should also append the version/commit to the caches archives.

Lukas: As you said caching, the musl compilation takes most of the time, compared to unikraft.

AJ: Yes, musl is quite big but you can enable/disable part of them. Currently it's not very fine-grained.

## :wrench: Decisions and TODOs
CC: Find some issues on the list 
Lukas: Continue using kraftkit and post any problems/bugs
AJ: Upstream the bug-fixes you have and look over the PRs you need to review
SJ: Tinker with the library

