---
title: "Kraft WG, March 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, kraft, krafkit, tooling
datetime: 2023-03-15T12:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- Alex
- Cezar
- Ștefan
- RăzvanD
- Simon
- Antoine
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: Ștefan, please work on `kraftkit` + ELFLoader integration.
See issue from Alex: https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/issues/281
App compat is the main track right now and we want to make as much progress as possible.

SJ: I made updates to the `setup` command.
Will switch to the ELFLoader integration.

AJ: Not so many updates with the merges.

Cezar worked into piping a shell script into `krafkit`.
All those changes are now incorporated into a PR.
What's stopping us from merging is going through all the workflows for doing the container images.

We'll start merging the work from Cezar with `get.kraftkit.io`.

It's a line of work that will become more prominent in the future.

The `myself-container` is for `kraft` itself.

The ideal is to use a bespoke version of `kraftkit`.

AJ: Networking support there is working PR from Cezar and I need to work on it.

`kraft run` doesn't work properly.
There is an issue with QEMU logging.

AJ: I opened up the issue to describe the ELF Loader integration.

AJ: Optimist about having kraftkit networking support in late April, for release 0.13.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

We meet next on Wednesday, March 29, 2023.
We keep in contact on Discord.

Kraftkit Task Force: Work on getting `krafkit` setup, this is the first step.

RD: Ping kraftkit task force with progress on `kraftkit`.

SJ: Check the ELF Loader integration with `kraftkit`: https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/issues/281

AJ: Write a cronjob to un-vault the CI/CD.

CC/AJ: Work on making the `run` command work.

AJ: Plan on integrating networking support.
