---
datetime: 2023-03-01T12:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - kraft
participants:
  - Cezar
  - Antoine
  - AlexJ
  - ȘtefanJ
  - RăzvanD
  - Nourredine
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit Updates

### Discussions

CC: We talked with Lukas about his use of krafkit.

Lukas wants to have Unikraft nodes for his university work for edge computing.
He might be keen on hacking kraftkit.

He submitted some issues that have been fixed.

AJ: He also submitted a PR today.

AJ: I was busy with internal work.

AJ: I've made a bunch of fixes today.

AJ: We'll eventually be upstreaming Firecracker and networking support.

AJ: I will be submitting fixes I've been doing.

AJ: Networking support will be first.
This is work done by Cezar, that I need to do a pass on.

AJ: There is a "kraft setup" command that Ștefan may work on.

Lukas is working on the "kraft init" command.
There will be some iterations on that.

CC: That could tie in with the VSCode extension project.


CC: Waiting for Alex to take a look into networking support.

CC: I took a tour on issue in kraftkit.
I closed and / or fixed some of them.

CC: I need to rebase the Docker PR.
This creates a Unikraft development environment.

CC: I think is assigned to most issues.

CC: An outstanding issue is the documentation one.

AJ: There are no unit tests at this point.


SJ: I kept working on the setup command.
I have something working for installing requirements for building, running Unikraft.

SJ: I then need to make it work on other OSes and distros.

### TODOs and Decisions

AJ: Submit different fixes.

AJ: Do a pass on the networking support for kraftkit done by Cezar.

AJ: Talk to Lukas about the "kraft init" command.

Potential project: Update VSCode extension with kraftkit (GSoC)

RD: Assemble kraftkit task force:
- using kraftkit
- documenting
- writing unit tests

SJ: Submit a PR on the current stage of "kraft setup" command.

SJ: Continue working on "kraft setup" command to make it work on other OSes and distros.
