---
title: "Unikraft Maintainers: July 11, 2022"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2022-07-11T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
  - maintainers
participants:
  - Alex
  - Cezar
  - RăzvanD
  - Marco
  - Gabi
  - Marc
  - Felipe
---

## Agenda

* coding / naming conventions: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_iRkdBjQtnqOj798ZNr23OQTWQcXPdpDsnfBikm6Pcg/edit
* commit signing / GPG
* OSS growth

## Discussions

### :lock: GPG Signing?

RD: It seems to add difficulty to new contributors.

AJ: It is an entry barrier by using GPG.

RD: It seems to be a human issue and we could we use a human process, not a technical one.

CC: It may be an issue with adding a tag if some uses an e-mail different than the one used for the GitHub ID.

AJ: If the sign-off is missing, it shouldn't be merged.

AJ: We need to be more vigilant about tracking authors and contributors.

RD: We have three flags: `Signed-off-by`, `Reviewed-by`, `Approved-by`.

AJ: See also: https://git.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/CommitMessageConventions

AJ: There are multiple GitHub tags.
Maybe it's worth investigating those for different use cases.

### Conventions

AJ: Export syms and functions are not the same things
You have to look into two different places.

MR: I don't how you would restrict the difference between exportsyms and "public" symbols.

MR: L3 is more stable and expected to be called.
Also better documented.
L2 can still be called, but it's an interface for platform library calls.

AJ: What about `_u8` and other data types?
According to this convention, these would be internal / unstable.

RD: I think the convention mostly applies to APIs / function names.

MR: We also have the `__spinlock` data type.
It was already part of the code.

AJ: There are rules and there are outliers.

AJ: At the moment we don't parse the code and the Doxygen comments.

AJ: There should be a script that generates HTML from Doxygen to see if it generates it correctly.
Similar to checkpatch to verify the code.
The Unikraft web site there should an HTML hierarchy with the Doxygen API.

MS: Clang can verify documentation tags, IIRC.

### OSS Growth

We are aiming to involve more people in owning parts of the Unikraft development process.
We've started discussions with several people on community activities: GitHub management, CI/CD management, release management, docs management.

## :closed_book:  TODOs and Decisions

* Define the "role" of known and explicitly used Git trailers within Unikraft.  If the role of the user in the context of a changeset/PR/series matches this role, then this Git trailer is used explicitly, e.g.:

| Git Trailer      | Role/Purpose |
|------------------|--------------|
| `Signed-off-by:` | (Co-)author of a change. |
| `Reviewed-by:`   | Combed through the change and provided feedback but did not make any significant(x) programmatic change. |
| `Approved-by:`   | Maintainer-use only and confirms that the change/PR is ready for merge. |
| `Tested-by:`     | Tested the change locally and confirmed working functionality. |
| `Acked-by:`      | Should we use this? Maintainer of the code that this change affects approves this change. |
| `Reported-by:`   | Should we use this? User created an issue and identified the problem that has resulted in this change. |

(x) Define the use of levels of symbols/exports.  E.g. double underscore, single underscore methods.

RD: Ask people to "match" the conventions to current internal libary implementations.
See what is missing, what corners cases.

* Decide if we want to have the underscore (`_`) prefix as part of private symbols.

* Develop a support script to validate Doxygen comments.

* Integrate Doxygen output HTML files in docs website.
