---
title: "Maintainers' Meeting, October 4, 2022"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2022-10-04T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Felipe
- AlexJ
- Hugo
- Simon
- Marc
- RăzvanD
- ȘtefanJ
- Cezar
- Marco
- Michalis
---

## :dart: Agenda

- kraftkit updates & next steps
- Musl updates & next steps
- binary compatibility

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Musl

RD: We have twice a week meetings.
Simon will unblock testing team.
RăzvanD and Dragoș will provide reviews.

SK: Musl would be a replacement for newlib and pthread-embedded.

SK: The main focus is Musl, pthread-embedded will likely go away.

### Binary Compatibility

RD: ASLR, W^X, mmap are connected to binary compatibility.

SK: Clean up ELF Loader.

RD: The current ELF Loader is working on Unikraft 0.7.
It needs to be updated.

MR: I'm resuming work on `posix-mmap`.
I will provide a header file with the API.
It will be good to have review.

MR: We will have two libraries:
* `posix-mmap`
* `ukvm` - internal library

The new API will provide the feature that `ukmmap` exposes.
This will make it useful even if paging is not 

SK: Dynamic linker / loader support will be there when `posix-mmap` is enabled.

### Krafkit Updates

AJ: We have reached parity with kraft.
I plan to do a release these days.

AJ: The plan is to have an early release.

AJ: There is an API that interfaces with containerd.

AJ: Much better support for interfacing with QEMU.
We are using a socket interface of QEMU.
This was necessary because the way containerd.

AJ: The interface is using protobuf.
It's getting more stable.

AJ: The interface in kraftkit is a multi-layer abstraction.
It becomes quick to add new platforms.

AJ: The goal is to replace kraft.

RD: Is the `GITHUB_TOKEN` issue solved?

AJ: There are multiple ways to do packaging.
Repository is one way.

HL: What about package dependencies?

AJ: Kraftkit has the idea of an extension to a `kraft.yaml` file.

AJ: We know the dependencies.
Users / Developers won't worry about that.

SK: You will have a simple version of the kraft file and a template is included behind the scenes.

AJ: All applications have an entry point file.
Languages such as Go, Rust show an entry point.

MR: Yes, I did that with libgo.

HL: Given the new kraftkit, how are components going to be pulled.

AJ: You can source libraries from the core.

RD: We want to have a location to mirror upstream versions.

AJ: Kraftkit has initial support for initramfs.
In terms of networking, work is not yet started.

Documentation will be inside the kraftkit demo.
It will be pulled from kraftkit and added to the main website.

MS: Is there a plan to start the VM without root access.

AJ: You could be part of the QEMU group.

SK: This could be part of the kraftkit installation.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MR: Work on providing header.

MR: Provide implementation `posix-mmap`, `ukvm`.

MP: Provide feedback to Marc on the header.

SK: Clean ELF loader.

SK: Provide dynamic linking support once `posix-mmap` becomes available.

RD: Coordinate testing of new applications with bin-compat.

AJ: Coordinate kraftkit implementation.
