---
datetime: 2022-05-02T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
  - maintainers
participants:
  - Felipe
  - Simon
  - Marc
  - Marco
  - Sergiu
  - Gabi
  - RăzvanV
  - Cezar
  - AlexJ
  - CristiV
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* uksignal integration with Musl / newlib
* memory ballooning
* platform rearchitecting

### Discussions

#### uksignal Work

SK: The complete picture of signals is getting the implementation working again.

SK: This will break the changes.

SK: The uksignal implementation needs rework.

SK: It's touching too may subsystems.

SK: I'm not sure whether uksignal should be a separate library or it should be part of posix-process.
There is a strong connection between posix-process and signals.

SK: For the headers part, this is something that could be done separately, based on the discussion between Marc and Dragoș Argint.

#### Memory Balooning

CC: It still works for KVM and Xen.
It goes through a lot of files.

CC: Right now it looks decent, but I don't like the overall design.

SK: It's probably a similar issue to uksignal - too many files touched.
And then we should also consider the paging API.

MR: You have to consider the frame allocator.

SK: Memory balooning is getting more important for the use cases.

#### Platform Rearchitecting

SK: Have a common direction.

RD: People allocation

FH: There are two separate problems.

SK: We have multiple baremetal and platforms working.
We get a better understanding of the common code.

#### GSoC22

We have 8 applicants.
We have to select some of them and rank them.
Google will then provide the funding.

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Find someone to work on uksignals.
That person could start with the headers update before working on the actual redesign / reimplementation.

SK: Figure out the design decision for uksignals.

SK+MR+CC: Discuss the memory balooning implementation / design.

RD: Schedule a discussion on memory balooning.

RD: Set up a Discord message to rank the top 3 GSoC'22 applicants.

Topics of discussion for next maintainers' meeting (Monday, May 16, 2022):
* platform rearchitecting
* syscalls mapped to different architectures in syscall shim
