---
datetime: 2022-04-04T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
  - maintainers
participants:
  - Simon
  - Alex
  - Michalis
  - Marc
  - Marco
  - Felipe
  - Cezar
  - Cristi
  - RăzvanV
  - Sergiu
  - RăzvanD
  - Dragoș
---

### Agenda

* uksignal integration with Musl / newlib
* memory ballooning

### Discussions

SK: About the reviewing process.
The system assigns a reviewer.

SK: The reviewer should be part of the review process.
When the maintainer makes comments, the reviewer should be still part of that.

SK: The `Reviewed-by` tag wouldn't be added for starters.

SK: This also is useful as a training of the reviewer.

CC: Couldn't the maintainer re-request review from the reviewer?

CV: The reviewer could add the reviewed-by at the end.

SK: It may be a problem with source of origin.

AJ: We've been using Patchwork.

CC: If we could get a notification when something has been stale for a while?

AJ: Yes, the bot could be set up for that.

CV: We could use a bot with Discord.

SK: It would be a freeze a week before.

MR: There are issue that only come out when features are unified.

MR: I was surprised that everything works for the release, given the amount of items.

MP: The most important is to find the goal: what are trying to achieve?

MP: If you start this one week before, you risk going into an infinite loop.
What are you going to use for testing?

AJ: We can use uktest.

MP: I think you need to have some ultimate test to run it before your publish it.

MP: How do you test all of these?

FH: We want to have someone to work on integrating tests.

MR: I don't think more notifications solve the problem.

MR: If you can have an overview of your work.

SK: We want to add the runtime uktests to the CI/CD.

RD: We'll leave the discussion for the release process and the branching scheme for after the next release (i.e. after release 0.9).

### TODOs and Decisions

TODO: Find someone to work on integrating uktest / runtime testing in the CI/CD system.

The review process will use the GitHub approve interface and aim for a discussion between reviewer(s) and maintainer(s).
The `Reviewed-by` tag will only be added after the maintainer approved the review.
That's when then maintainer will also add the `Approved-by` tag.

The community should use the overview of work with GitHub projects to quickly get a view of what everyone is working on and what's stale work.
We won't do any further notifications as the number of GitHub notifications is large already.

RD: Document the updated review process.

RD: Document the overview of own work (PRs) in the GitHub interface and with the GitHub CLI.
