---
datetime: 2022-06-13T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
  - maintainers
participants:
  - Simon
  - AlexJ
  - Michalis
  - RăzvanV
  - Cezar
  - Marc
  - CristiV
  - RăzvanD
  - Felipe
---

### Agenda

* kraftkit high-level presentation and status (Alexander Jung)
* naming conventions (this is based on a comment from Michalis Pappas here: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/316#discussion_r790945166)
* plat re-architecting

### Discussions

#### Kraftkit

SK: Some changes for the new release (0.10 - application compatibility) will break things.

AJ: For kraftkit we use the idea of template for `kraft.yaml`.
A template will define the attributes and can be "included" in the `kraft.yaml` file.
A definition in the current `kraft.yaml` file will override (if there is a conflict) the template definition.
The `@` will be used to symbolize the version.

AJ: Kraftkit has been redesigned to not interogate via a GitHub token.
This is done via a manifest file.
The manifest directory is going to be a public GitHub repository: https://github.com/unikraft/index.
This is based on crates.io for Rust.

AJ: The tooling in kraftkit will update the manifest files by itself.
The tooling will use the GitHub access token and will add new repositories / components to push that to the index repository.
We could use the governance repository such that only us, as maintainers, could modify that.

AJ: At one point we will likely need to use subdirectories to index the components.

AJ: Part of the initial release of kraftkit we will have an initial update feature.
There is a nice tooling called go-releaser.

AJ: The 2nd major feature is to more easily add an application to the Unikraft ecosystem.
We have a template `kraft.yaml` and a template `Makefile.uk` - the `Makefile.uk` can be made transparent or can be added to include the C source code files required.

SK: For simple programs in Rust or in Go, it's simple, because you generally only mention the entry point and then everything works.
You want to get that experience for Unikraft as well.
Developers of Go / Rust are used with that magic so you should have that as part of Unikraft.

AJ: At high level, most people will only use the kraftkit tooling to build their applications.

AJ: The goal is to release kraftkit in September.
The current community focus should be more on the next release (0.10 - application compatibility).

#### Naming Conventions

MP: Things that start with underscore are usually reserved for the standard library.
This is regarding the discussion about renaming `PAGE_SIZE` with `__PAGE_SIZE`.
Maybe we can use a naming scheme such as `UK_PAGE_SIZE`.

SK: The double-underscore comes from the kernel convention.

MP: What if Musl will introduce tomorrow the `__PAGE_SIZE` symbol?

MP: Let's create a convention document with naming items and keep it consistent.

SK: Library names in Config.uk would automatically have a `LIB` prefix.
It's some kind of a namespace-ish item.

For platforms we are using `ukplat`.
We have the convention of `HAVE_...` for features, so that we can switch fetures.

RD: We should list the items that are targets for naming conventions: file names, Config.uk variables, function names, variable names, macros.

RD: I've created a document for conventions here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_iRkdBjQtnqOj798ZNr23OQTWQcXPdpDsnfBikm6Pcg/edit
We will resume the discussion next time.

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Talk to Gabi and Ștefan for involvement in the 0.10 release, waiting for kraftkit to stabilize

everyone: Contribute to the conventions document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_iRkdBjQtnqOj798ZNr23OQTWQcXPdpDsnfBikm6Pcg/edit
