---
datetime: 2022-05-16T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
  - maintainers
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Felipe
  - Simon
  - Marc
  - Cezar
  - CristiV
  - RăzvanV
  - RăzvanD
  - Dragoș
  - Vlad
---

### Agenda

* arhitecture-specific syscall integration
* platform rearchitecting

### Discussions

RV: First approach: add guards for architectures

Second approach: update the build system.
We generated the generated syscall file.
We are letting them generated, but we mask the symbols.

SK: I don't like the second approach because it's intrasparent.

SK: I checked the Linux approach to this.

SK: There are different system calls such as clone3.

SK: One goal is going to be upgrading our implementations for the more powerful versions.
This is the same for Linux ARM where they cut off system calls, there is now only `openat`, not `open`.

MR: Are you sure that only the compatibility features are dropped?

SK: For syscalls such as arch_prctl, I would say "only build this on x86".


MP: The deeper I look at it, the more questions I have.
I want to have some answers to the existing architecture.

MP: I have an idea to create a driver layer.
That will remove a part of the common part.

SK: All pieces out there are nano-libraries.
The problem is that if you build for multiple libraries at the same time, some platforms will use the same nano-libraries.
It would be the case to compile each of them for each architecture with different compiler artifact.

MR: The Firecracker shares a lot of the KVM code but only the booting is different.

SK: It will be a different set of selections of nanolibraries.

MP: I was having similar ideas of librarizing each features.
But, for concrete cases, I have questions of what goes where.

SK: So far, we have include/plat/ and then all the headers: console printing, up and down, init table.
The platforms then connect to these drivers.

MP: We don't have to the internals.
You don't have user space like applications.
Allow applications access to the drivers APIs.

MP: We keep "include" for user space applications and exposing internal driver API to baremetal applications.

SK: We could enable the build system to access the internal features.
But disable the access to the rest of the platform symbols.

SK: It should be fine to access from general to specific parts.

MR: From my perspective, we try to avoid accessing normal libraries in the platform code.
Do not use `ukalloc()` but use predefined memory areas.

MR: You have special applications that can access internal platform API.

SK: The high-level vision is enable any sort of specialization you want to do.
You need to get the build system and the architecture done the right way to get this done.

MP: You can always say that there are interesting ways to access the kernel.

SK: Something to help may be ukstore where libraries can add entries to comunicate additional interfaces.

MR: Information will have to be brought from the other hypervisors.

### TODOs and Decisions

MP: Add presentation summary on plat-re-arch to document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kz0fWUe7pLl2kIx_CnNotY53h8vvSH8owUAd-ZNtB3I/edit#

RV: Create document with proposal on syscall shim redesign
