---
title: "Musl, September 26, 2022"
tags: musl, unikraft, libc
datetime: 2022-09-26T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- musl
participants:
- Dragoș
- Florin
- Robert
- Simon
- MariaS
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- support for questions from "testers": Ștefan, Radu, Maria - they are waiting for your input
- status of libc-test and next steps
- status of Unikraft updates: what is not yet there (signals?)
- status of Musl port - is there anything else required
- PR status (Unikraft and Musl)

## :closed_book: Discussions

DA: uksignal is missing;
it must be fixed in Unikraft.

DA: LWIP doesn't work with Musl.

DA: TLS should work.

FP: To my understanding, LWIP exposes some functions are also part of Musl.

SK: The libcontext PR is ready to be integrated: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/535
Then the next PR is going to be the scheduling PR.
Then afterwards the PR for syscall shim.
Then a PR for posix-process, including clone.

SK: uksignal is broken.
With the new scheduling API, uksignal is not integrated.
Anything that requires signal support will not build.
This is of secondary priority.

SK: There is a PR that integrates LWIP support: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip/pull/19

SK: Robert's patches for ARM are part of the first PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/535

RK: The code is public on Simon's branch.

DA: The code from Simon's branch is pretty clean.
We just to need to have it available for people to review.

RK: There are some missing items from Musl such as `pthread_set_name`.
We need to update Unikraft implementation.

SK: I would avoid patching Musl too much.

SK: I would see what is the priority.

SK/RD: Procfs is a pretty big monster, so we may want a quick fix for that.

What should not be working (both for ARM and x86_64):
* uksignal
* wait system call
* exit system call is not behaving properly

SK: We don't know why, at some point, flushing doesn't work properly.

DA: I added a PR that makes printf() work.

FP: I enabled the rule to download the repository: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/553
At the moment, my question is which option should I choose.
It's not blocking me at the point.

FP: What I need is a confirmation of the current way of downloading is OK and should I continue it like this.

SK: I prefer the one-liner, even though it's a bit restricting.

FP: It's not restricting the commits.

SK: I would document that restriction.

FP: About the threading PR.
I found an issue with `sem_open()`.
If you use `O_CREAT` there isn't a dentry created.

DA: We can either patch `sem_open()` or add symbolic links.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Integrate first for Unikraft ukthread re-implementation: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/535

RD: Assign a reviewer and assignee for the LWIP scheduling API: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip/pull/19

SK: Create three draft PRs: scheduling, syscall, posix-process

RD: Browse list of Musl PRs and see their status.

SK: Provide the HackMD file.

RD: Start "what should not be working" document as HackMD file.

FP: Move the PR to a full PR (from the draft).

FP: I need to create patches replacing `main()` to `uktest`.
Complete it by October 17, 2022.

FP: Create issue on `sem_open()` and `O_CREAT`.

RK: Create issue on `pthread_set/get_name`.

Tentative next meeting: on Tuesday, October 4, 2022, 12pm CEST.
