---
datetime: 2022-03-23T10:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - syscall
participants:
  - Simon
  - Sergiu
  - Dragoș
  - RăzvanD
  - Felipe
---

### Agenda

* Reviews on ukthread
* Next steps

### Discussions

SK: I used binary compatibility mode for TLS integration.
I hit a bug where the 2nd TLS doesn't work.

A TLS switch is happenning as soon as a binary call happens.
This seems to work.
At least my application works at this point via the ELF loader.

We have a complete stack setup for the ELF loader.

I'm currently using the pthread API in binary compatibility mode to trigger a clone() call.

I want to fix two other problems:
* the 2nd TLS
* the screwd up stack issue in the ELF

Now I can test the clone() syscall.
This is the reason why there is no clone() syscall committed.

I looked in the PID generation.
In the new implementation, it should work.
But it will have to be part of the clone() call.

It's now working in a way such that, when running a thread, you get a process ID and thread ID, the same way you do it in Linux.

There will a public version of the ELF loader.

I'm using a staging / latest version of Unikraft.

DA: I looked at the code.
I have some questions.

For Musl threading integration we need futex implementation and the clone() syscall.

SK: In `uk_thread`, `tlsp` is set by the CPU register when you do a context switch.
This is required for the binary compatibility mode.

`uktlsp` is the actually computed TLS.

DA: In Musl you need to point `fs` to the `pthread` structure.

SK: The pthread structure is using the positive addresses from the TLS.
The negative values are the TLS values added by the compiler.
`ukthread` will not touch anything on the positive values.

SK: We'll do a direct call to a function called `clone()` instead of doing syscalls.

### TODOs and Decisions

SK: Talk to Marc about futex implementation status.

RD: Schedule another call on Thursday, March 24, 2022.
