---
datetime: 2022-07-06T10:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - syscall
participants:
  - Dragoș
  - Florin
  - Răzvan
---

### Agenda

* Current state of ukthread / clone
* Musl integration
* synchronization / futexes

### Discussions

DA: I started working on Musl + clone.

DA: There are some flags that Musl doesn't define / support and that are used by the current `clone()` implementation in Unikraft.

DA: I used `uk_syscall_r_clone` instead of an actual system call.
This makes a direct call and reduces overhead.
It's done in most syscalls by patching a macro in Musl.

DA: I make an explicit `__libc_start_main` call in the `main` function to do initializations, including TLS.
TLS initialization may be related to an issue with the return value of the `clone` call in the child thread / process.

DA: An assertion currently fails because of improper return value of the `clone` call in the child thread / process.
It should return 0, but more than 0 is returned (in `rax`).

DA: The parent has to set their own thread ID.
That may relate with the issue with the child PID.

FP: I started to transfer tests to `uktest`.
`uktest` doesn't work with `vfscore`.
This is due to initialization priorities with `uktest` and `vfscore`.

FP: There is an issue with using `calloc` inside the boot process.
Changing the ordering of the call fixed this, though I'm not sure it's a good solution.

FP: I solved the defining of the VDSO definition for `getpid`, `gettimeofday`.
There was a macro definition that I could patch.
I removed the file and update the Makefile.

RD: You don't need to remove the file, just update the Makefile.

FP: I talked to Aadhi and he's looking into a fd-related issue that he posted about in the `#lib-musl` text channel.

FP: I'm uncertain about the current PRs and patches.
We're using private repositories.

RD: We need a sync meeting with Simon to get all things in place and make a concrete plan to upstream the Musl work.

### TODOs and Decisions

DA: Ask on `#lib-musl` (Simon) about approach on missing Musl flag definitions.

DA: Work on fixing the return value of `clone` in the child process.

DA: Continue work in integrating Musl and `clone`.

FP: Ask on `#uktest` channel about the `vfscore` and `uktest` combining issue.

FP: Ask on `#lib-musl` about ordering of function calls in the boot process.

FP: Continue work in integrating tests.

RD: Ask Aadhi about state of fd-related issue.

RD: Schedule next Musl meeting at a suitable time next week with everyone on board, to plan for Musl integration + release.
