---
title: "Syscall-shim cross-architecture, July 20, 2022"
datetime: 2022-07-22T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - syscall
participants:
  - RăzvanD
  - RăzvanV
  - Simon
---

### Agenda

* Idea implementation for cross-architecture syscall shim
* Next steps

### Discussions

RV: two types of syscalls: legacy and architecture-specifics

RV: We should still through provide warning messages.

SK: I think the warning message should be an error message.

SK: The mandatory ones should 

RV: The legacy system calls need to be part of a separate file.

SK: No, you could do a pre-processor tricks with `awk`.

SK: There are commands to provide the generate files.
I would define another variable and generated a header with that variable.

RV: So we should do the filtering inside the Makefile.

SK: The fix is then moving the legacy syscalls into a separate header files.
For the arch-specific syscalls, we just do the conditional compiling.

SK: It doesn't make sense to compile the x86 when using ARM.
The legacy would be masked out.

RD: We could call them legacy / modern.

RV: Just to make sure, the legacy would not generate warnings, it would mask them.
And for the arch-specific ones it would produce an error.

SK: It's an extension of the previous PR.
I would still use an info message.

RV: Finally we should compile the compiler guards for the architecture specific ones.

SK: The new syscalls should be added to the modern syscalls list.

### TODOs and Decisions

RV: Create PR with implementation.
