---
title: Musl, July 15, 2022
tags: unikraft, musl, clone
datetime: 2022-07-15T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- musl
participants:
- Dragoș
- RobertK
- Simon
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Updates
- Next steps
- Planning for release

## :closed_book: Discussions

DA: I'm trying to get rid of `__libc_start_main()`.
I need the callbacks from Simon.

SK: Thanks, Robert, for sending the link on the two TLS.

SK: The TLS needs to be initialized.
This is done on my side.
It was more tied to the binary compatibility mode.

SK: I'm going to commit it after this call.

DA: I need to then test it with the pthread API and the native uktread API.

SK: I need to the binary compatibility mode working again.

SK: Then start rebasing on the latest staging.

RK: For the ARM64 port:
* I've implemented the new TLS API from Simon.
* I had two small patches that had to be done.

SK: The sensible thing to do is to wait for me to rebase to staging.

RK: Are there changes that I need to do before.

RK: There is call to `unmap_self()`.

SK: In every thread you can register a destructor.

SK: If you have a kernel stack then you have a problem.

DA: I didn't notice this was a big deal.

SK: More realistic is having a second branch for Unikraft.

RK: The fix should be very similar fo x86 and for ARM.
The problem is the same.

SK: I hope we can do it with generic code.

RK: I can work on this this week, next week I'll be busy.
I'm kind of OK with the patches I have so far, but definitely we'll have to test it.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SK: Provide callbacks to Dragoș to complete the replacement of `__libc_start_main()`.
The `clone` call works properly.

RK: Provide patches as commits in a new branch on the repository for Simon to check.

RK: Look into the issue with the unmapping and report findings.
