---
datetime: 2022-03-19T09:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RazvanD
  - ȘtefanJ
  - PaulV
  - AlexA
  - Radu
  - Dan
  - AndreiT
  - Teo
  - Gabi
  - AlexP
  - Sergiu
---

## Summary of Activities

RaduN
* fuzzed a linux app
* currently stuck on fuzzing on vm cloning - > computer reboot unexpected and no debug log is printed. I am investigating on this

ȘtefanJ
* I reviewed this pr[1]
* I looked through this pr[2] and this issue[3], will keep digging

[1]: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/394
[2]: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/337
[3]: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/issues/6

AlexA
* Progressed with DLang.
Close to identify the problem with the Makefile and come back with a fix.

Teo
* Progressed on the kAFL PT investigation.
* Progressed on using PT bitmaps for fuzzing.

AndreiT
* Managed to boot Unikraft 0.7 on Firecracker
* Looked over networking in Firecracker (virtio block and network devices over mmio transpot) 

PaulV
* Looked over the FreeBSD and Linux Hyper-V support to learn how the interrupt for handling incoming messages and events on the guest vm is configured.
The confusing part was the dynamic allocation of a free irq on FreeBSD.
And as it seems this allocated irq is communicated to the hypervisor during the SynIC (synthetic interrupt controller, LAPIC + extensions) initialization, to use this irq to notify the guest vm.

Sergiu
* I looked up ways to give a different color to accumulated dots of a plot through matplotlib, came up unsuccessful - have to change the color of dots individually.
* Added the possibility to differentiate between the setup time and the actual benchmark of an app within the plot.

RăzvanD
* I reviewed ukargparse test PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/392
* I helped Alex Apostolescu with DRuntime build issues
* I talked to Sergiu Moga about involvement in RTC subsystem

Gabi
* Run app-sqlite with Uniprof on Xen
* Look over this PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/392

AndreiM
* I ran a demo of ukstoreprovided by @Cezar Craciunoiu and familiarized with it
* I talked to @Razvan Deaconescu and @Cezar Craciunoiu about the way to progress with the implementation of procfs

AlexP
* I tested connection with wasp and checked out tmux.

DanU
* Finished bump allocator
* Worked on some allocation tests
