---
datetime: 2022-04-09T09:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RăzvanD
  - ȘtefanJ
  - PaulV
  - AlexA
  - AndreiM
  - Dan
  - AndreiT
  - Teo
  - Gabi
  - Sergiu
  - Dragoș
---

## Summary of Activities

RăzvanD
* I refactored scripts and programs used for binary compatibility evaluation.
* I helped around with advice.

Sergiu:
* I reviewed https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/406

ȘtefanJ:
* I went through some of the old docs and checked for parity against the new docs website
* I worked on the kraft.yaml file validator for kraftkit

Dan:
* researched OTA allocation technique
* read Fast Forward Allocator paper

AndreiM
* I read more about the way file systems work in Unikraft
* I started testing a prototype for posix-procfs

AlexA
* Looked over the current version of v8 and tried to create a bundle using the latest core.
I`ll continue by checking golib implementation to find a way to fix the issues.

Dragoș
* I re-enable musl wrappers and solve most of the build conflicts.
I used a simple app to test it. Still got work to do with changing the binary system calls to function calls.

AT
* Worked on virtio-mmio draft (https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/250) to check the flow using a kvm image.
* Updated my local qemu version for testing the draft using microvm flag.

Teo:
* investigated what the kAFL PT output means when running with a Unikraft guest
* set fuzzing IP filtering with Unikraft addresses (but new issues appeared due to this so will have to dig deeper)

PaulV
* Continue working on vmbus communication

Gabi
* Continue to test sqlite using Uniprof
