---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, January 22, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-01-22T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Cezar
- Michalis
- Marco
- RăzvanD
- Alex
- Simon
- Sergiu
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Deprecating ARM32 support
* Deprecating Linuxu support
* Build system hooks (via Robert / OpenSynergy)
* `arm64` vs `aarch64`
* warnings dumped by syscall shim for ARM64
* `checkpatch` and `-Werror`
* ISR safe

## :closed_book: Discussions

Linuxu is no longer maintained, it is not tested.

ARM32 is no longer maintained.

MP: It's better that we don't carry legacy.
And we don't have any good use cases.

MP: Moreover, the architecture is moving away from 32 bit.

SK: If ARM32 will be interesting.
You would anyway want to start with ARM64 for ARM32 support.

EPAM and OpenSynergy are also OK with dropping ARM32 support.

The ARM32 is so old and incomplete.

MS: We don't have ukvmem, debugging and anything.
There's no reason to keep it.

SK: I would mark it as unsettled.

# Werror

MP: It's not easy to introduce by default.

The proposal is to have it on the CI when we submit pull requests.

### arm64 vs aarch64

We use `arm64`.

### checkpatch

Enable `--strict`.

Consider upgrading `checkpatch`.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MP: To discuss with Simon about the build system hooks in the next meeting.

We use `arm64`.

Enable `-Werror` in the pipeline for submitted pull requests.

Upgrade `checkpatch`, enable `--strict`.

TODO: Work on syscalls on ARM64 to remove warnings.

Agenda for next meeting:

* Upgrade `checkpatch`.
* Revisit deprecating `linuxu` support.
* ISR-safe
* Build-system hooks
