---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, January 8, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-01-08T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Alex
- Simon
- Michalis
- Cezar
- RăzvanD
- ȘtefanJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Using Kraft(Kit): build, run, filesystems
  * `netdev.ip` thread: https://discord.com/channels/762976922531528725/1191658390024355891
* Filesystem mounting in KraftKit: (embedded) initrd, `vfs.fstab`, `extract`
  * `extract` thread: https://discord.com/channels/762976922531528725/1192013001633583187
* Nightly builds testing

## :closed_book: Discussions

### arm64 vs aarch64

RD: There is an open discussion we should come to an agreement of, related to the use of the `arm64` or `aarch64` string.

AJ: Should there be a discussion also about `amd64` and `x86_64`?

### `extract` Feature

RD: Prebuilt applications / frameworks use the embedded initrd (`einitrd`) feature.
Expanding those implies the use of a secondary filesystem with the application files, that will be mounted via `initrd` using the `extract` feature of `vfs.fstab`.
Currently we have 3 options:

a) the user passes the `extract` feature as a command-line option to `kraft run`

b) KraftKit infers the requirement for `extract` and passes the corresponding option to the qemu / firecracker command

c) Unikraft knows the option has been made available at build time and enables the option transparently behind the scenes

AJ: We don't want option a) because of usability concerns.
The user shouldn't know / care about the use of `vfs.fstab`, or `extract` feature.

AJ: The `Kraftfile` for an application developer aiming to use Unikraft should be as simple as:

```yaml
spec: v0.6

runtime: unikraft.org/node:18

volumes:
- ./src:/usr/src
```

AJ: From my point of view, the generated command line should be the same, with Unikraft infering the option based on the build configuration.

RD: It's going to be "hacky" either on the KraftKit side or on the Unikraft core side.

SK: We could add an annotation with `uklibid`.
We could use that as an instruction for an image builder such as `kraft`.

SK: If you enable the `vfstab`, then you have the option to overwrite everything, including the executable.
If we want hardening, we want some allow / disable hardening feature for certain mount points.

SK: We have two points a) hardening; b) usability.

AJ: It should be possible to use Unikraft without `kraft`.

AJ: We could have a `replace` feature.

AJ: You're downloading a prebuilt image from the registry together with a JSON-formatted config list.

AJ: How soon can we have this feature in for the catalog?

SK: There may be an option to use multiple initrds for 

SK: From an embedded point of view, you want to use a single approach.

SK: The debate is more on a vision that is either close to a) Linux (allowing configurability) or b) an embedded build (where everything is preset, preconfigured to just work)

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Open up discussion related to the use of `arm64` vs `aarch64`.

AJ / SK: Agree on the approach to use to enable the `extract` feature for `catalog` applications.
