---
title: "SMP WG, June 6 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-06-06T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- Marc
- Michalis
- RăzvanV
- Andra
- RăzvanD
- Adina
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### ISR-Safe

AS: I had two approaches: both use manual annotations.
One is using a GCC plugin.
The other is using an update to `objcopy`.
I focused on the GCC plugin approach.

AS: I used custom programs.
I stuck to only use warnings, not errors.

AS: There is a manual annotation that I have to add to functions that have to be marked ISR-safe.

RD: Consider doing more testing and also checking if there are any performance bottlenecks when placing functions in a separate section.

RD: Does the GCC plugin approach require a custom build GCC?

AS: Yes, it does.

RD: This may not be that problematic, because we ship a custom version of GCC with kraftkit, and that could be updated to feature the GCC plugin

### Synchronization

RV: I created the ukvmem synchronization PR.
The current implementation is using a read write lock, for synchronizing accesses to the VMAs list.
We also use a simple spinlock that is serializing the `uk_vma_map()` calls, so that we don't risk to map the same memory region multiple times.

RV: 2 page faults coming from the same VMA can be handled in the same time.

MR: The page table must become a CPU local variable.
We have to support both the scenario with a shared page table and the one with separate page tables for each CPU.
The page table most be a CPU local variable in both scenarios.
In the shared page table scenario, we also need to synchronize the low level paging API and look into the frame allocator.

RV: What happens if we associate one CPU id with each thread, wouldn't that mean that a thread can only be run on one specific core?

MR: The current scheduler implementation aready involved threads being stick to one CPU.
We could avoid that, but there is no out of the box way.
At least for testing, we should go with this approach and ask Simon on the channel.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Schedule a meet with Adina, Marco and Simon, on the ISR topic.

RV: Make the page table a CPU-local variable.

RV: Look into synchronizing the paging support + the frame allocator.

RV: Buddy allocator - ukvmem interface.

MR: Provide feedback on the ukvmem synchronization PR.
