---
title: "SMP WG, March 28, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-03-28T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Marc
- Michalis
- Sairaj
- Simon
- RăzvanV
- Andra
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RV: Three approaches:

- internal allocator synchronization
- external user space allocation
- mimalloc

RV: I'm using the region allocator as a bootstrap allocator.
Before mimalloc.

MR: Then the region allocator would manage the first 256 MB.

MR: As long as the heap hasn't touched pages around the area, there are still frames that can be used.

MR: At this point we still have the issue that the heap allocates memory and the mmap will then allocate memory using on-demand paging.

SK: Regarding the project, another problem is that low-level allocator (for page management) is also not synchronized.

MR: You need to first synchronize al VMM items: paging, frame management.

MR: As a first stage, you could use a synchronized buddy allocator without page management support.

MR: For the frame allocator, you could use partitioning: use multiple allocators, one for each core.

MR: There were some bugs, we used mimalloc for a PoC.
There was, if I recall, a problem with memory initialization.

MR: The buddy allocator is not optimal.

SjK: I was test the virtio synchronization.
I created two VMs and I tested it.

SjK: Each process is sending as well as receiving.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RV: Finish up the bbuddy allocator.

RV: Ask for memory allocation for bbuddy to then trigger the ukvmem part.

SjK: Finish up virtio synchronization.

To decide next time: Next steps for Sairaj: 2nd approach to memory safe allocation or vfscore synchronization
