---
title: "SMP WG, June 20, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-06-20T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- Marc
- Michalis
- RăzvanV
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RV: I focused this weeks on the case where multiple cores share the same page table.

RV: I have an initial draft PR for the buddy allocator - ukvmem interface.
Already received initial feedback from Simon.
Relying on the buddy allocator to pre-allocate physical memory will be a configurable option, not the only option.

RV: Worked on synchronizing the frame allocator.
Used read-write locks and focused on providing optimal synchronization for the functions that maps a virtual address to any physical address.
The allocation of a specific physical address is serialized, but it should happen rarely.

MR: I agree we should focus on scaling the allocation of any physical address.
Allocating a specific physical address will probably happen at boot, for device memory.
I don't think we are currently calling that function.

RV: We have a problem because the read write locks rely on the scheduler to block for waiting.
When we wake up from a waiting in a read write lock, we risk to get a pagefault during the scheduler wake up function.
If the frames allocator or the virtual memory support is synchronized with read write locks, this can cause problems.
E.g. The interrupts are disabled while we are waking up from the read write lock.
If we need to lock again during the page fault handler, we call the scheduler, which crashes because it can't be called with IRQs disabled.

MR: We could try to make sure that the thread structure used during the wakeup call can't generate page faults.
I am not sure if that could be easy to do.

RV: I am currently relying on an alternative implementation of read-write locks, based on spinning instead of blocking.

MR: We can use this for the initial version of the PR.

MR: I expect some problems on the paging support synchronization.
We could use a reference counter for the frames, so that we make sure a core doesn't free a frame while it is still used by someone else.
That won't be a 2 days work.
We can lock the entire `pg_page_mapx()` for the beginning.

MR: An alternative could be providing the reference counter in the frame allocator and calling a `reference_counter_put() / get()` from the paging code.

RV: I will look on the Linux implementation.

MR: We could start with a single lock and see if there are still operations that can be run in parallel.
Even with setting the attributes we could have problems.
We probably need to guarantee that the same permissions are set for all frames after a call to the paging API.


## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RV: Create PR for the frame allocator.

RV: Complete an initial sub-optimal implementation for the paging synchronization.

RV: Look on the Linux code on the page tables synchronization / the rwlocks in pagefaults problem.
