---
title: "SMP WG, May 5, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-05-09T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- Marc
- Michalis
- Simon
- RăzvanV
- Andra
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

MR: Sairaj is pretty busy with the new job, but he is going to update his PR.
If he doesn't have time, I will update it.

MR: The synchronization PR should go into this release.

RV: On `ukallocbuddy`, there are some documentation comments from Andra, to improve code clarity.

RV: On `ukvmem`, I synchronized it using read-write locks.
Once the synchronization PR is in, I can create a PR against staging.

RV: My main work item is now interfacing the buddy allocator with `ukvmem`.

RV: In the buddy allocator, why should we set a physical memory allocation threshold and not just allocate physical memory for the exact virtual memory we allocate?

MR: We always allocate chunks of `2^threshold_order` pages, exception when we need to allocate a chunk bigger than this.

MR: If the `threshold_order` is 3 and we need to allocate 4 pages and we start with a chunk of 16 pages:
- we split the chunk once
- we allocate 8 physical pages (`2^threshold_order`)
- we split again

RV: What happens if we do lot of allocations like this and the physical memory is all allocated?
Don't we have half of the allocated pages unused?

MR: No, if the buddy allocator doesn't have any fragmentation issues, at a second allocation it should use the already allocated half that is unused.

RV: Indeed, this is how our allocator works, it will first consume what is already available.


## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MR: Keep in touch with Sairaj so that the synchronization PR will be in for the release.

RV: Create the ukvmem synchronization PR against staging.

RV: Have an initial implementation for the `ukallocbuddy` using `ukvmem`.
