---
title: "SMP WG, May 23, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-05-23T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- Marc
- Michalis
- Simon
- RăzvanV
- Andra
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: Release 1.0 for January 2024.
There are some items depending on the SMP track.
Deadline for SMP-safe memory allocation: August 2023.
Deadline for SMP-safe Unikraft core libraries: October 2023.

MR: I think the deadline for the SMP-safe memory allocation is feasible.
We need to also consider that this depends on the thread and sched structures synchronization.
This is because of the primitives we are using.

MR: The lock-less primitives are not mandatory, but they are nice to have because this will improve the performance.

SK: Lock-less structures would also make synchronization easier in the scheduling part.

MR: At the moment there are only spinlocks in the scheduling synchronization.

RD: There is a long set of items and I wouldn't move much into the lock-less structures if we can't find someone available to work on it.

MR: Right now, we only have a patch for the thread structure.

RV: I can help with the scheduling synchronization, already looked a bit into it for the read-write locks.

RD: I need to talk to Adina to take part in the next SMP meeting and give us some updates on the ISR-safe side.

SK: The ISR is getting urgent, also Marco needs it.
Marco provided a PR, but it is a bit of a workaround and it involves some overhead.

MR: If you use the synchronization PR, that is not thread safe unless you synchronize the thread structures themselves with spinlocks.

SK: The thread creation should be allocation free, otherwise you get into a chicken-egg problem.

RV: Even with the patch from Marc, the allocation with RW locks is failing from time to time. 

MR: It makes sense to first make sure the problem comes indeed from the RW locks, not from the synchronization code itself.
Should create the initial PR with spinlocks and if it works, find the problem with the thread structure synchronization.

SK: What do you mean by the allocation failing when using RW locks?

RV: I am testing by allocating chuncks of memory in parallel and then checking for overlaps and printing an error message.
However, the message doesn't get printed in general, the aplication is just failing at an overlap because of a double free.

SK: You should be aware that also the prints themselves are not thread safe.

RD: What is the next step?

RV: After both ukallocbuddy and ukvmem are synchronized, I will work on making the buddy alocator use the ukvmem API.

RD: What is the end goal, should the synchronization be available trough a configuration option?

MR: We should start by making the synchronization available by default, the lock primitives are empty structures when SMP is disabled.
Then, we can add a configuration options where the synchronization means high contention.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Talk to Sairaj about his current status.

RD: Talk to Adina and schedule a meeting with her, Marco and Simon, on the ISR topic.

RV: Create `ukvmem` synchronization PR with spinlocks and start getting feedback on it.

RV: Solve the read-write lock problem (if it is indeed the problem) and update the `ukvmem` PR.

RV: Create the PR on ukallocbuddy-ukvmem interaction.
