---
title: "SMP WG, April 25, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-04-25T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Marc
- Michalis
- RăzvanV
- Andra
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

AP/MR: The synchronization PR should be OK.

RV: One track: the `ukallocbuddy` PR from Sairaj.

MR: There's no need to disable interrupts.

RV: OK, so we shouldn't disable interrupts.

RV: Second track: the synchronization of `ukmem`.

MR: It's OK if you do a simple synchronization first.

RV: In the Linux kernel, they use a read-write semaphore for `vm_area_map` and `vm_area_unmap`.
I was thinking of using rw-locks.

RV: The issue it's that it uses the scheduler work, because of the blocking / locking.

MR: You can start a separate scheduler instance on another core to run threads on different cores.

MR: At some point, we may consider using synchronization primitives (such as spinlocks) even if not having threads.
That is, using the low-level SMP API.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MR: Finish the Synchronization PR.

AP: Look into the `ukallocbuddy` PR that RV submitted.

RV: Look into the test application from the synchronization PR for rw-locks.

RV: Create a PR for synchronization of `ukvmem`.

RV: Work on the items from Marc's comments, making `ukallocabuddy` to use `ukvmem` now synchronized.

At some point, we may consider using synchronization primitives (such as spinlocks) even if not having threads to synchronize `ukvmem`.
That is, using the low-level SMP API.
