---
title: "SMP WG, February 7, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-02-07T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Marc
- Michalis
- Sairaj
- Simon
- RăzvanV
- Andra
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

I'm trying to set the target attribute done.
Planning to work on it starting from tomorrow.

SkJ: I've discussed the synchronization with Andra.
Then I identified the race conditions on virtio.
I created a design, with three type of locks:
* one to protect the device
* one to protect the queue
* one to protect the PCI device

AP: There is a layer of device on top of the PCI device layer.

SkJ: We'll be using spinlocks.
When we transmit and receive we will need a per-queue lock.
We can spin for some around of time.

The use of reader-writer lock will not sleep.

RV: We don't have any piece of code on SMP-safe allocation.

MP: The idea was to take the initial implementation of `ukalloc()` and add lock.
For highly performant SMP-safe allocation we would use newer allocations.
Hugo proposed that.

MP: After we go through the naive approach of locking.

MR: `memalloc` would be an allocator that is SMP-safe.
Another allocator apart from `memalloc`.

MR: Although we have `posix-mmap`, we don't have synchronization.

RV: So another step is to synchronize `posix-mmap` (third step).

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MR: Look into the PR from Sairaj regarding the synchronization PR.

SjK: Use locking for console printing.

AP: Draft text on HackMD regarding synchronization.

RV: Create proposal on memory synchronization.

