---
title: "SMP WG, March 14, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-03-14T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- Adina
- Andra
- Marc
- Michalis
- Razvan V
- Sairaj
- Simon
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

AS:

- Focused on ISR safety.
- Added gcc plugins, for the current compilation units. Can mark it and see it.
- Didn't find how to look for items from other (external) compilation units.
- Can find it, if moving into a different program section.
- Will publish a PR for the current work, of local compilation units.

Simon K:

- This could be an option to use a section trick.
- Instead of doing a call tree.
- You can judge much better.

AP:

- Submitted [PR for per-lcpu variable](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/784).
- Updated the [SMP Support - Test Plan doc](https://hackmd.io/@unikraft/BkQnu4bCs) to include the latest PRs and notes about further changes and components to look into.
- Have to do reviews for the PRs that cover the syncronization primitives, virtio-net multiqueue support and SMP safe virtio-net.

RV:

- Submitted [PR for the buddy allocator syncronization](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/801).
- Added sync to different levels of memory, used spinlock.
- Added test cases in the draft PR.
- Found [this article](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.03436.pdf), looking into lockless allocator.
- Next step is to look into improving this current implementation or focus more on external libraries, continuing with the current implementation.

Simon K:

- The initial plan is to have something available as soon as possible on the SMP side.
- Should look into the publicly available allocators.

MP:

- Can also merge the current implementation, then doing things incrementally.
- As an option to further looking into improving the current implementation.

Sairaj K:

- Found better optimized solution for rwlock, implemented it and updated the PR.
- Developed a test case for mutex, need to upload it publicly.
- https://github.com/sairajkodilkar/unikraft/tree/sched-sync
- Need to test the SMP support for virtio-net.
- Previous note from Sairaj: Currently, we are using a global timer, which can only wake up Bootstrap CPU. In the SMP environment we should use the timer provided by the LAPIC. Because of this we cannot use deadline-based waking up on the SMP system.
- Sync primitives, virtio multiqueue PRs are ready for review.

RV:

- Spinlock seems to be implemented on x86 and arm64, but the logic config depends on arm64.

Sairaj K:

- There is the possibility to have spinlock and ticketlock for arm64.


## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AS:

- Publish a PR for the current work, of local compilation units.

AP:

- Do reviews for the PRs that cover the syncronization primitives, virtio-net multiqueue support, SMP safe virtio-net and buddy allocator.

RV:

- Come back with info on what would take to improve the current implementation of the synchronization for the buddy allocator e.g. based on the shared article.

Sairaj K:

- Validate the SMP support for virtio-net.
