---
title: "SMP WG, November 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-11-15T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- RăzvanD
- RăzvanV
- Marco
---

## :dart: Agenda

- State of synchronization ( @Sairaj Kodilkar )
- Synchronization of thread structure
- SMP-safe Allocation ( @Razvan Virtan )

## :closed_book: Discussions

### State of Synchronization

RD: Get in touch with Sairaj.

RD: Find someone extra to work on synchronizing internal libraries.

### Synchronization of Thread Structure

RD: This is something we discussed in the previous meeting.

RD: There is a rough description of steps from Simon: https://github.com/unikraft/meeting-notes/blob/staging/discussions/smp/2023-09-12.md

RD: Sairaj may be able to work on this.
If not, someone else.

### SMP-safe Allocation

We have three levels:

* buddy allocator is submitted: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/801
  There is a message that with some stress testing, a synchronization problem appears.

* `ukvmem` synchronization: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/935
  There is an issue with the page fault handler.
  The PR is not in reviewable state, it doesn't work.

MS: Andrei / Sergiu wanted to implement a thing where all work from the page handler.

RV: This will allow us to have a read-write locks.

* page table + physical pages allocator:
  Right now what you can do is do a single lock.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Sync with Sairaj regarding general synchronization items.

RD: Find someone extra to work on synchronizing internal libraries.

RD: Sync with Sairaj regarding the internal scheduler synchronization.

RD: Find another reviewer: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/801

RV: Talk to Sergiu about moving work outside the page fault handler.
Then use rw-locks for synchronization.

RV: Write a proposal on page table + physycal page allocator
Send on Discord, no latest than Monday, November 27, 2023.
