---
title: "SMP WG, January 10, 2023"
tags: unikraft, smp, synchronization
datetime: 2023-01-15T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- smp
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Marc
- Michalis
- Sairaj
- Simon
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

SjK: We can use multi-queues on virtio, and we can use SMP.

SjK: I will draft a PR on multi-queue implementation.

SjK: I plan to make a separate thread for the transmission.
This will make non-blocking transmission possible.

SjK: Instruction on PCI Express are not atomic.
Reads are not atomic when reading more than 32 bits.

SjK: When using bridges, QEMU cannot use multi-queues.
When I use a tap interface, we can use multi-queue.

SjK: It depends on the QEMU command-line option.
If passed the `bridge` type as a `netdev`, then multi-queue doesn't work.

SK: Regarded on threaded core, why don't we go for asynchronous communication.

SjK: `virtio` is now blocking on the transmit code.

SK: `virtio` is actually working asynchronously.
What's missing is implementing the asynchronous API.
The user must be aware when a buffer / packet can be reused.

SK: My approach is using a send thread and the receiving part should be asynchronous.

SK: The driver needs to keep a refcount of the buffer.
And then a notification mechanism when the packet buffer is transmitted.

SK: The uknetdev API was always intended to behave like that, but we didn't get to it.

SK: In BSD the idea was to batch packets.

SK: For making `virtio` SMP-safe, we can assume we have a queue for vCPU.

SjK: How can I ensure that?

SK: That is something you can do in the netdev implementation.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SjK: Provide draft PR of `virtio` multi-queue support.

SjK: Work on synchronization of `virtio` implementation.

SjK: Change the `uknetdev` API to make it asynchronous.
And then virtio can use that.

SjK: Expose a notification mechanism for the `uknetdev` API.
