---
title: "Community Gathering, February 10, 2023"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2023-02-10T14:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- AlexJ
- ȘtefanJ
- RaduNichita
- RăzvanD
- Levi
- Lukas
- EdiM
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Post-release 0.12
- Plans for release 0.13
- Status updates from everyone, questions
- Others

## Discussions

Release 0.12 just happened.
Many thanks to all those involved.

We aim to have release 1.0 in one year's time (by FOSDEM'24).

We start an early review process.
Reviewers and assignees are added as soon as the PR is sent out.

We need to improve the review guidelines to make it more robust and clear for reviewers.

The CI/CD will be improved.

We are turning into a more professional community with better processes and contributors who know their way around the project.

We are looking to organize unikernel meetings with other unikernel projects.

A bunch of hackathons & events are planned for summer 2023.

Release 0.12 was a stabilizing release.
Most relevant features are the upgrade and introduction of Musl + documentation updates + the ELF loader.

### Plans for Release 0.13

Release 0.13 will happen on Monday, May 1, 2023.
A feature-freeze will happen one week before, on Monday, April 24, 2023.
No features will be allowed during the feature freeze, only fixes.

- improve documentation: READMEs, Doxygen style comments, coding conventions
- ukfdtab
- uksignal
- noshutdown
- security features: shadow stack, CET, ASLR
- platform rearchitecting (towards Firecracker, VMware, Hyper-V)
- versioning management; maintaining older versions
- kraftkit
- CI/CD, integration testing, uktest
- app porting
- core imp

### Status Updates

AJ: I'll be jumping back to kraftkit.
We want to make it more stable.

AJ: Once 0.4 is released, please test it.

EM: Implementing gcov-embedded in Unikraft.
I'm working with uktest.

LH: I'm working on libboost library.
It is working now.
I had a few doubts about that library.

LH: I just started.

Lukas: Using project in Unikraft as a student project.
We are looking into stream processing engines.

Lukas: The build system is a bit confusing.
The unikernel only uses the LWIP unikernel.

## TODOs and Decisions

Release 0.13 will happen on Monday, May 1, 2023.
A feature-freeze will happen one week before, on Monday, April 24, 2023.

RD: Assign reviewers / assignees to PRs as soon as they are public.

Everyone: Focus on doing reviews as soon as you are assigned to them.
