---
datetime: 2021-11-17T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#cofee-break` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - TO FILL
---

### Agenda
 * open source community
 * release: Monday, November 29, 2021
 * Uniprof / profiling
 * SMP
 * ARM
 * language support (Rust, D)
 * fs support
 * IDE support
 * bootloader replacement / EFI support
 * PR walkthrough
 * CI/CD demo
 * next demo (for Wednesday, November 24, 2021)

### Discussions
GM: I did the Uniprof update on 4.11 Xen and it’s working.

GM: I’m stuck on the 1st problem with the 9pfs problem.

CV: Waiting for the common API to be merged.
And we can resume talking about the x86.

RV: I’m waiting on the common API and the GIC PR to be merged.

RV: I can use the spinlock implementation for ARM.

PV: I’m still going through the USoC sessions.

CV: Marc said that Hyper-V needs EFI support.
Unikraft must be an EFI image.
The EFI support in Unikraft is important.

CV: We were discussing how we can tackle this.
How we can keep the memory mapping provided by the bootloaders.
We should have our common infrastructure for storing this information.
I saw that ARM also works with EFI.

CV: We need to change the Unikraft support. 
CS: Musl is used for user-level applications.
The Linux loader loads an ELF file and it passes to musl - ELF vectors.
This allows the discovery of TLS variables.
QEMU doesn’t pass this information. Musl initialization fails.
TLS also fails.
If you use PE required by UEFI, you don’t have an ELF file.
The bootloader may be compiled as a PE and load the ELF.
The TLS ABI is different from Windows and Linux.

CS: I will try to patch the Musl initialization code to not depend on the bootloader.

CS: In Unikraft we pass information in the Linux scripts.

CS: Musl is broken again due to libc syscall shim.

CS: The Musl test should be part of the CI/CD.

CV: I was able to use UEFI with PE.

CS: UEFI firmware may require PE.

SM: When using PIE, because a range in the memory range is reserved, UEFI may be an issue.

SM: I also know that the EFI application must be compiler as a PE.
But we can have a bootloader as PE format and the kernel in UEFI.
We can also chainload our bootloader if we need a multiboot2 implementation.

CS: If the thread representation in the pthread is not compatible, it will fail.
We need a way for Musl to implement threading support.

CS: It should be not hard to patch Musl to work with the bootloader.

### Tasks / Decisions
 * CV: Come back with a proposal on structuring a video presentation for Unikraft 0.6.
 * GM: Ping Simon about the Nginx 9pfs problem.
 * GM: Look into warnings.
