---
datetime: 2021-12-15T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Alex
  - RazvanD
  - RazvanV
  - Sergiu
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - Cezar
  - Cyril
  - Gabi
  - Vlad
---

### Agenda

* community events (reminders)
* SMP
* ARM
* bootloaders, platform support
* fixdep
* Uniprof
* Loupe
* Rust
* Rust demo
* PR status

### Discussions

#### Community Events

Planned events in the near future:
* Germany-based hackathon for the systems community in Germany
* Asia hackathon (China, Korea, Japan, maybe India)
* ASPLOS'22 workshop - late February 2022: TAs required, may be face-to-face (Lausanne)
* FOSDEM'22 - early February 2022
* Xen Summit 2022 - late June 2022, face-to-face, Bucharest

Proposed talks for FOSDEM'22
* Unikraft overview
* Prometheus / ukstore
* Debugging + Monitoring
* FlexOS
* CI/CD

#### SMP

CV: Nothing new on the x86 front.

#### SMP + ARM

RV: For ARM, I made it boot again.
We want features to start CPUs in cascade.
I added spinlock support.

#### fixdep

CC: I need to investigate further what's happening in Linux.

#### Loupe

SM: I've been reading the code.
I managed to run it.
I'm inspecting the code base.

#### Uniprof

GM: I have an issue with a bridge configuration under Xen with nginx.

AJ: There is a script in /etc/xen/ that does all the networking.

#### Hypervisors Support

PV: I started to work something based on Xen source.
PV: I created a separate Hyper-V development repository.

### TODOs and Decisions

* RD: Ping everyone about FOSDEM submissions.
* RD: Schedule a call on bootloaders, one on GCP and one on new hypervisors support.
* SM: Take a look in the bullet points for Loupe development.
* RV: Create a draft PR with the ARM support.
* CC: Work on fixdep.
* GM: Use Alex's suggestion
