---
datetime: 2022-01-18T11:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - ide, kraft
participants:
  - Alex
  - RăzvanD
  - Ștefan
  - Adina
---

### Agenda

* IDE status update
* kraft planning

### Discussions

AJ: We can use default settings for the bridge and networking.

AS: For now, for C it works quite OK. This includes the configuration variables. For C++ I'm still having some problems. For Python I can add autocomplete only if some builds were made.

AS: For other modules, I still haven't found a workaround.

AS: Regarding the configuration variables for C, the extension doesn't allow going into a function of a variable not defined in the code.

AJ: Let's work towards a release of the IDE, even if imperfect.

AS: There is no consideration of the `specification` tag in the `kraft.yaml`.

AJ: `kraft.yaml` needs a more stable release cycle.

AJ: We could say in the IDE what version of kraft is supported.

AS: Check the GitHub actions pipeline.

AJ: I will create a small PR with a replacement of the icon file.

AS: Squash all the commits into one called "Initial release" (signed-off).

AS: Official name "Unikraft VSCode Extension"

AJ: There are a bit of issues that need to be done on the kraft side. The build pipeline for kraft needs to be fixed. Once this is done, it's easy to release kraft.

RD: The course of action should be:

* Fixing kraft issues.
* CI/CD pipeline integration (AJ)
* Update documentation

Then we can start a discussion on the syntax of the `kraft.yaml` file.

We need a larger discussion after the release.

### TODOs

AS: Aim to get the IDE release by our 0.7 scheduled release (Monday, January 31, 2022).

AS: Use the official name of "Unikraft VSCode Extension".

AS: Squash all the commits into one called "Initial release".

RD/AJ: Organize involvement in updating documentation.

RD/AJ: Plan for a more extensive kraft meeting after FOSDEM'22.

We meet for a short meeting next week, Tuesday, January 25, 2021, 11am CET.
