---
title: "Baremetal, Embedded, Drivers, November 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, drivers, embedded, baremetal
datetime: 2023-11-15T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- embedded
participants:
- Radu
- RăzvanV
- Michalis
- Robert
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Review of document: https://hackmd.io/@unikraft/rkZG9EfTh
- Drivers support ( @Niculae Radu )
- Xen on AArch64 ( @oleksiimoisieiev )

## :closed_book: Discussions

There was a discussion between Simon and Stefano Stabellini.

MP: There is a student who asked about real time requirements for Unikraft.

RN: I've played with the Xilinx UltraScale board.

RN: There is Unikraft version that someone used to create a Xilinx platform.
I tried to build and boot that with uBoot.

RN: Usually uBoot requests a uImage.

MP: You should target the latest version of Unikraft.

MP: Also, you can't go forward, you need to develop and understanding on how to do that.

MP: Break it up into smaller pieces and bring it up to the board choice.

MP: Your first target is to get UART.

MP: You need a way to get to know the progress.
It's either to do a reset-based debugging or get up a led.

MP: The other approach is to use QEMU and then you have a GDB.

MP: The code is the truth.

MP: You can study the way the way the plat in QEMU works.
It has and `entry.S` and then jumps to a boot function that reaches the early UART code.

### MP: Ideas on the Board Bring-Up Process

First and foremost! Find out the UART chip your board uses.
In Unikraft we support `pl011` and `ns8150/ns16550`.
If it uses neither, you will either need to port an existing driver to Unikraft, or choose a different board to work on.
Boards supported by QEMU have the advantage that you can debug with gdb even before you have early UART.

When you bring up a new board your initial target is to get early UART.
In Unikraft we currently enable early UART by compiling the base address of the UART via KConfig.
So as soon as you have a stack, you can start making calls to printing facilities (don't forget to set verbosity to max in Kconfig).

For the bootcode you can study `plat/kvm/arm/entry.S` and boot pagetables at `plat/kvm/arm/qemu_bpt64.S` (QEMU virt "board") or `plat/kvm/arm/firecracker_bpt64.S` (Firecracker).
You will need to create similar pagetables for your board.
In theory, you should be able to boot just by creating new pagetables and defining your platform's memory limits in `plat/kvm/include/kvm-arm64/platform.h`. 

As you already mentioned, you will also need to get familiar with the image type your board boots.
In the latest versions of Unikraft we support the linux boot protocol.
That will create, instead of an ELF,  an arm64 linux boot image, as defined in https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/arm64/booting.txt.
So wherever you can boot such an image, you can also boot Unikraft.
In general, it's extremely unlikely your bootloader / firmware boot neither ELF, linux image, or raw binary (it's very easy to generate one from ELF), so either way you should be good in that aspect.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Collect all embedded / baremetal-related use cases.

RN: Check out Xilinx UltraScale in QEMU.

RD: Links for theses from Sergiu Moga an Dragoș Petre.

RN: Work on board bring up.
Get to early UART.

RN: Start a thread with the uImage format.

RN: Start a thread called Xilinx UltraScale bring up.

RN: Document process while going through it.

RD: Get in touch with Oleksii about the Xen on ARM64 port.
