---
title: "Baremetal, Embedded, Drivers, January 24, 2024"
tags: unikraft, drivers, embedded, baremetal
datetime: 2024-01-24T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- embedded
participants:
- Michalis
- RăzvanD
- RaduN
- Daniel
- Sergiu
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status Update

## :closed_book: Discussions

RN: Still trying to figure out QEMU and uBoot.

RN: I'm trying to start a debug Unikraft image with uBoot.

Daniel: Microarchitectural attacks

Interested in using Unikraft as an alternative to Linux to keep track of microarchitectural attacks.
Benefits of using something lightweight.
Currently we are using x86_64.
We have a 

We use an ISO image.
We boot using multiboot from a USB.
If you use Multiboot2 you can't use the legacy boot.

SM: We can build Unikraft with EFI so you can boot as EFI.
You can have a partition with Unikraft and related stuff.

SM: If you decide to use EFI, there is a configuration option that may require increasing the amount of memory regions, it may be needed to use 256.

Daniel: I've encountered some issues on some machines.
On a 2010 machines, there is a memory region that broke the memory process.
It should be the video display memory.
My quick fix was not mapping the region.
It's the `0xa0000` address.
I was using 0.15.

Daniel: We've observed some issues with the PCI enumeration when trying to get a custom NIC driver to work.
However, after upgrading from 0.10 to 0.15, we could not reliably reproduce that issue anymore.

Daniel: I'm currently observing issues with secondary CPUs.
While starting a secondary CPU, i.e., using `ukplat_lcpu_start`, works on QEMU, it stucks the kernel in a boot-loop on bare metal

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

Daniel: Provide information on the `0xa0000` address issue on baremetal.

Daniel: Try out the EFI build for newer systems that can't be configured with legacy boot.

RN: Work on trying out QEMU and uBoot with Unikraft on Xilinx board.

Daniel: Provide update on PCI enumeration.
