---
datetime: 2022-04-13T10:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - syscall
participants:
  - Dragoș
  - Simon
  - Felipe
  - Adina
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* Current state of ukthread / clone
* Musl integration
* synchronization / futexes

### Discussions

DA: I enabled Musl wrappers.
I could do a build.
I build an application with all wrappers.
I need to do some updates to make function calls not binary system calls.

DA: All wrappers do system calls.

SK: In Musl you will create a call to uksched to allocate an area for the TCB.
You would need to add these two new functions to enable the TCB.

DA: The initialization of the TLS is part of `libc_start_main()` so we need to patch that.

SK: The TLS will be initialized together with the scheduler.
There are some steps in the boot code that turn the boot / main thread into an ukthread.
And then the TLS will be created for it.

SK: The TLS initialization is the same point both the boot thread and for any new thread created with a TCB.

DA: Is this callback in the creation of the boot thread invoked the `main()` function?

SK: This is before.
It's before the initial tables.
You can look into the `boot.c` PR, the procedure changed a bit.

SK: Have an overview of the libc functions and then we can decide where to put this pieces, as part of the Musl initialization process.

SK: There are calls that needs to be done in the futexes implementation.

We'll wait for the next calls for the futexes work to be picked up by Adina.

### TODOs and Decisions

DA: Patch wrappers to do function calls instead of binary system calls.

DA: Create PRs with all conflicts solved.

DA: Create PR on Musl.

SK: Work on `clone()`.

DA: Embedded the Musl pthread structure in `uk_thread`.

AS: Look into Marc's suggestions on synchronization evaluation.
