---
title: "Musl, August 3, 2022"
tags: musl, unikraft, libc, clone
datetime: 2022-07-15T13:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- musl
participants:
- Dragoș
- Florin
- Robert
- Simon
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

DA: All `clone` flags work.

DA: `sleep()` doesn't work.

DA: I don't understand why we need to use `sleep()`.

SK: Sleeping in the main thread should be OK.

DA: How is this going to work in general?
This is changing the application to make it fit Unikraft.

SK: This is just the case for your test.
Whenever the application releases the CPU, you can free its resources.
This is just for you to test this code path.

DA: But I don't add a sleep here, it will not work.

SK: I started doing the rebase.

FP: I want to download the tests, patch them and build them.

FP: I talked to Gaulthier, it is OK if we his work and he confirmed that the repository is forked from the one we linked the last time.

SK: If you separate them, and put them into separate files, then I think this can be done cleanly.

SK: We want to make sure that the code is licensed under MIT or BSD.

RK: It would be cleaner to have the tests for a separate repository.

SK: We can use the test repository to test all sorts of libcs.
If we don't ship it, it would be OK.

RK: I went manually through the pthread tests.
I have a dirty test repository that works against Musl.
The `pthread_create()` call fails.

DA: This doesn't work because you aren't using the latest version.

RK: This is rather dirty, I just updated it manually.

RK: The `clock_gettime` call doesn't work

FP: I did a patch that disabled VDSO, that enabled `clock_gettime` to work.

SK: For Musl integration, do you guys need LWIP?

RK: I don't think so.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

DA: I will implement the `unmap_self()` callback.

DA: Test the uk_thread API.

FP: Test Musl with lwip.

FP: Use the original repository as the source for the test library.

RK: Provide access to Dragoș to the dirty pthread tests repository.
