---
datetime: 2022-06-08T09:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - syscall
participants:
  - Dragoș
  - Florin
  - Simon
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* Current state of ukthread / clone
* Musl integration
* synchronization / futexes

### Discussions

DA will be busy during the next weeks.
Then the plan is to work on the clone / thread integration with Musl.
Then he will on best effort mode.

Aadhi (from UTexas) wants to be involved.

SK: I have pushed all the changes to the collaboration branch.
There are some little missing pieces.

SK: For Dragoș's work, all implementation is there.

SK: I'll probably start doing the cleanup work.
There are about 100 commits.

This is currently working on 0.7.

FP: Didn't really have much time to look into tests from Musl.

FP: I got stuck mounting the segfault

DA: You need to provide a cpio archive.

FP: You can run tests with different parameters.

Move the default branch to stable.

For the futexes work, I have three commits with the posix-futex implementation.

### TODOs and Decisions

DA: Aim to browse code from Simon.

RD: Schedule discussion with Adina on posix-futexes work.

RD: Talk to Aadhi about involvement.

RD: Schedule next meeting on Wednesday, June 15, 2022.

For Adina: Potential work items on system V semaphores for sync implementation

SK: Do cleanup work on ukthread / clone implementation.

FP: Focus on the release.
Then move on with testing Musl.

FP: Use cpio for Musl filesystem testing.
