---
title: "Security WG, November 4, 2022"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2022-11-04T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- Marc
- RazvanD
- Marco
- Vlad
- Michalis
- Luciaz
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Go through the list of people working on security items: @Marc Rittinghaus @Vlad Badoiu @Marco Schlumpp & who else?
- Generally, go through projects on the GH Security Project: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/32/views/1
- Anyone or anything missing in this list?
- For each project, it would be nice to assign a deadline. When the deadline comes, if the project hasn't succeeded yet, we should take stock of the situation, see what we can change: review the goals, assignment, etc.
- Are there any technical difficulties with the ongoing work?
- Are there any outstanding PRs that require external attention? A review, a merge, or simply comments?
- What are the clear next steps towards progress for each project?

Link to the slides of the Sinaia session: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Qbb9WYfFwRa0Ds2MIVtMrXMlAx5QASC_

## :closed_book: Discussions

HL: Go over the list of security related topics.

HL: Ideally we could put some kind of deadline.

### Memory Randomization

HL: Memory randomization has multiple subtasks.
We came to the conclusion to put someone on it.

MR: We have multiple implementation for this.
A static one (link-time) for section randomization.
The other one is randomizing at runtime.

MR: For the kernel image we need bootloader / Unikernel loader support.
`posix-mmap` is still required to randomize stack, heap and the position of different memory areas.

MR: When Simon's PRs on the scheduling API is enabled, we will be able to randomize thread stacks.

MR: The direct physical mapping could also be randomized.
We would have to think about how this would happen.

RD: We also need to consider the true random number generator support.
We're currently using `ukswrand`.

### MTE

MR: There is a PR from Michalis: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/458

MR: I talked to Michalis to change the API to a more general API that can be used for other mechanisms.
With a more globally defined API, we can leave the guards away.

HL: These are more minor changes to happen.

### W^X

MR/MP: The implementation is done for ARM.
It could be adapted for x86.

MR: It's not optimal, it depends on paging.
The ELF binary has all the section information for extracting the protection.

MP: Besides the missing information in headers.

HL: Let's leave it on the side now and red

### Hardware Randomization Support

MP: I aim to review the PR for randomization: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/434

MP: x86 has equivalent instructions.

MP: Someone can take a more generic view.
And then update it for x86 as well.

MR: This shouldn't be a complicated item.

RD/MP: Apart from the x86 backend, there would then be a need to create / integrate a library that is then called by Musl and higher layers.

### KASAN

VB: We require #603 to be merged first.

### Shadow Stack

RD: Work done by Maria.

The aim is to have a generic API and shadow stack will be a pluged in into that.

MR: Consider defining a special type `shadow_stack` to be integrated with the virtual memory API.
This will allow to define a special area for shadow stack with specific properties.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Schedule a call about the bootloader and Unikernel loader.

RD: Talk to Șerban Sorohan about PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/492

MP: Update the MTE PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/458

RD: Find someone to implement hwrand for x86 using the API provided by Michalis: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/434

Pick up Sebastian's work: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/420

RD: Talk to Maria about progress and planning on shadow stack.
