---
title: "Security WG, March 10th, 2023"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2023-03-10T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- Carol Bontas
---

## :dart: Agenda

Let's focus on the status update. We will change the time of this meeting
so that Razvan can join next time.

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

Once again, very low attendance, we really need to revive this call...

Carol: Tried the Coverity scan on non-Unikraft projects, understand how it is
Carol: working, I'm now trying to integrate the build-system hooks into the
Carol: Unikraft but I'm struggling a bit, do we have documentation on the Unikraft
Carol: build system?

Hugo: Probably not, what you need to do is to precisely pinpoint where you need
Hugo: to plug into the build process and what you want to do. Do you really need
Hugo: to modify the build system? Isn't it just a matter of having the "right"
Hugo: compiler default on the system? Try to experiment manually at first, e.g.,
Hugo: executing make prepare, then coverity, etc. and once it's working we can
Hugo: work on automation, CI integration, etc.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

- We should discuss the Unikraft security hackathon. Make sure that we have
  super up-to-date documentation on security. We should merge the security
  disclosure document! It never got any review.
- Discussion with Razvan: any security-focused GSoC proposals this year?
- Change the time of this meeting.
