---
title: "Security WG, January 29, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-01-29T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Michalis
- RăzvanD
- AlexA
- Sergiu
- JeniR
- RăzvanV
- TeoT
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Intel CET

TT: I have a configuration of KVM and Linux working with Intel CET.
It shows that it works with a vulnerable program.

TT: I'm looking into how to implement it in Unikraft.
I need to add specific bits to page tables.

TT: There are two components:

- shadow stack
- branch tracker

TT: I tried to do this (allocating the shadow stack) but QEMU enter an infinite loop.

### ukrand

AA: Sergiu did a review on the PR.
We want to have it upstream for 0.16.2 happening later this week.

AA: I'm looking into Fortuna in parallel.

### LoC Reduction

JR: I tried to answer to the questions from Hugo.
I realized it is necessary to refine the ideas.

JR: I read about software metrics in general and software security metrics in particular.

JR: I would go for the SLoC count, counting the physical lines of code.
There is a tool suggested from Hugo.

JR: There is an option from the KraftKit tool, to get print stats.

### Fuzzing Memory

RV: I've been looking for kernel fuzzers used in the wild.

RV: The starting point is syzkaller.
AFL is only at a minimal level of support for kernel fuzzing.

### AMD SEV / CCA

MP: Everything works now.
I need to go through my series to creates PR.

MP: All works now, including CCA with all devices.

MP: We currently tested it with `kvmtool`.
It should work with other platforms as well.

MP: Ongoing discussion with Linaro regarding images supported.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

TT: Work on page table support for Intel CET in Unikraft.

JR: Do SLoC count on different applications and then let us know about results.

RV: Contact Delia and Radu Nichita for info on the fuzzing work.

AA: Work on Fortuna and on the ukarch implementation.

MP: Upstream CCA / SEV work.
