---
title: "Security WG, March 11, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-03-11T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- ȘtefanJ
- Sergiu
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- AlexA
- ȘerbanS
- TeoT
- Jeni
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### MTE

SJ: GCC 12 doesn't work with the current MTE implementation.
The same register is used both for input and output.
I split this into two different blocks.

SJ: If allocating with `ukalloc` from `main()` it works.
If allocating with other functions, the compiler adds instructions that returns non-tagged addresses.
For example, `ukalloc_ifpages`.

SM: Is there a warning if you build with `_ifpages`?
Maybe because of a conversion.

### Entropy Pool

MP: It requires some mathematical backing.
What I propose documenting what are others doing.
Basically understand what Linux does.
BSD does Fortuna.

MP: Just gathering entropy via interrupts and xoring them is naive.
I have a paper on randomness.

### Static Analysis

I worked on getting compiled files into the list of items to be analyzed.
It works on Redis and Nginx.

It's a tool targeted for developers.

### CET

TT: The indirect jump tracker is working.
In case of `jump rax` and `call rax`.
If it doesn't end with a `endbr64` instructions.

TT: For the shadow stack mechanism.
I had them start at the very beginning of the page.
When you have an interrupt, it switches on that show stack and switches the context.
The token on the stack is set to `1` and then it switches to a shadow stack information.

### LoC Reduction

JR: Last time I worked with the `print-stats` option.

JR: I used it for two different apps.

JR: I had a look at the code for that option.
It's written in Go.

JR: I can use it for a start.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SJ: Verify proper header inclusion for `ukalloc_ifpages`.

SJ: Post workaround with inline assembly and ask Michalis for input.

AA: Read papers from Michalis.
Create plan to work on Fortuna and interrupt-based entropy pool.

CB: Provide repository and instructions on using the static analysis tool.

TT: Investigate current issue with CET support.
