---
title: "Security WG, February 12, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-02-12T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Michalis
- RăzvanD
- AlexA
- Sergiu
- CarolB
- ȘerbanS
- TeoT
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Intel CET

TT: Still looking into the Unikraft memory allocation code the Intel CET.

### ukrand

AA: I will take care of the PR comments from Sergiu: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1008

AA: I also checked the ASLR PR.
Some code is copied from the swrand.

MP: I want to move the primitives into a driver first, do initialization, call the library from a driver.

AA: No Fortuna updates yet.

MP: The initialization has to happen very very early, even before we jump to C code.
It is required for multiple items such as CCA, early APIC stuff, MTE.

MP: The high level library might require to collect entropy later on.
We might consider having calls that don't use the entropy pool.

SM: Is the seed provided by the bootloader not enough.

MP: It depends on your trust model and the capabilities of your platform.

MP: The idea is to unblock this with `rdrand` and `rdseed` and provide 

### Static Analysis

CB: The final task is to add the Coverity defects and assign them to blocks in Unikraft source code.

CB: The problem I encoutered is with applications, I need the `print-sources` command.

CB: I have a problem when using all internal libraries.

### ASLR

SS: I refactored Terry's work.
I submitted the PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1317

SS: Under checkboxes, you have items for build time and stack randomization.

SS: Next step is to compute entropy for the stack.

SS: I want to measure the boot times.
It will only measure the overhead of the stack.

SM: What is the reason for also randomizing libraries?

RD/MP: It's not a black and white approach, it's mostly about reducing the effects of potential attacks.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AA: Integrate feedback on ukrand PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1008

TT: Work on page table support for Intel CET in Unikraft.

SS: Build as PIE and re-test.

SS: Provide information on build-related issues on respective channels.

CB: Provide tool to do static analysis, once done.

CB: Provide information on issues on using all libraries.
