---
title: "Security WG, March 25, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-03-25T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- Michalis
- Sergiu
- ȘtefanJ
- AlexA
- ȘerbanS
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### HW Rand

AA: Work on sw rand to hw radn.

AA: I am working on Fortuna, a PRNG, that would offer some resilience.

AA: It's good to have some statistical analysis of entropy from interrupts.

MP: Adding an entropy pool is a complex job.
If we want it similar to the Linux kernel, it will be complicated.

MP: Security-wise, it's better to have something missing, rather than having it imperfect.

MP: Fortuna is more proven and controlled.

The entropy pool of Linux is complex and complicated in Unikraft.

MP: If you want to provide interrupt-entropy as well, this is mostly for providing Fortuna's pool.

AA: That's what I thinking as well.

HL: We need a clear threat model.
If you don't trust the hardware, then the hardware would be able to skew interrupts.

MP: There are caveats for statistical analysis.
It can show how numbers are distributed, but it won't necessarily show you if your generator is not back doored.

### Memory Randomization / ASLR

SS: No updates.

### MTE Musl

SJ: I did basic tagging for small allocations in the Musl allocator.
I did a tagging on the smallest allocator.

SJ: Allocation is done for the small chunk allocator.

MP: GLibc does support MTE.
So bincompat on ARM64 would work.

MP: Eventually, the Musl allocator will get ukalloc pages.
The tagging will be applied by the fine-grained Musl allocator.

RD/MP: We can decide later at which level, and with what configuration options could we have?

HL: What could happen for adjacent blocks?

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SS: Test randomization support with PIE.

SJ: Investigating how the others allocators work.

SJ: In the near future, contact the Musl community with a draft submission of the work.
