---
datetime: 2023-09-13T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - plat-re-arch
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Rareș
  - Sergiu
  - Simon
---

### Agenda

Status updates

### Discussions

MP: I have a list of topics to discuss.

MP: `Virtio` is merged.

RM: Do we place `tap` under `uknetdev`?

SK: `tap` is very `linuxu` specific. It speaks `uknetdev` directly.

SK: I think `tap` should go to `plat/linuxu/drivers/uknetdev` or we can have all `linuxu` drivers at once, like we have with `virtio`.

MP: Sounds reasonable. It's a good idea to move things outside of `plat`.

SK: Should we make an artificial bus for `linuxu`?

MP: Rares can develop it if he wants.

SK: We can start with `xen`.

SK: What do we do with `plat` public `xen` headers?

MP: I have to follow the same scheme.

SK: I could consider as virtio (`linuxu/tap`).

MP: We could do `linuxu/uknetdev/tap`.

SK: We can use an alternative for `tap` for `linuxu`.

MP: I've been moving around the interrupt controller code.

MP: We can have a centralized interrupt controller.

SK: Interrupts are signals. The linuxu implementation is very specific.

SK: For paravirtualisation, the guests know they are in a virtual environment. For full virtualisation, the guests don't need to know that.

SK: Interrupt on tap device is a block and read.

SK: It's another discussion for the future to kill `linuxu`.

MP: I have to discuss with OpenSynergy. They were considering `Unikraft` to be the OS for automotive.

MP: Leagacy will slow us down.

MP: I would like to get rid of 32-bit completely.

### TODOs and Decisions

RM: Continue work on `tap` based on today's discussions.
