---
datetime: 2022-04-21T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - profiling
participants:
  - Gabi
  - Marc
  - Marco
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Brainstorming on outside of guest profiler

### Discussions

RD: The goal of this meeting is to come up with some ideas on profiling Unikraft images from outside the VM, similar to Uniprof.

GM: Uniprof is a Xen stack-based profiler.

GM: It works outside the VM by using Xen libraries to interact with the guest VM.

GM: There is no modification to the hypervisor nor to the VM.

MS: You can't really introspect KVM from the outside.
You modify QEMU or use some KVM introspection patches.

MS: Our approach for KVM was updating QEMU.

MS: It's a generic QEMU part.
This is not as maintainence.

MS: There is some preliminary work to create / port a Xen library to KVM.

MR: For our approache, it's a thread that uses the internal API to suspend the VM.

MR: We could Integrate the stack trace in the debug information and make it available via GDB.

RD: What about libvirt?
Doesn't it have some sort of KVM interface for this?

MS: libvirt is using some QEMU commands, I don't think it has a direct way to interface QEMU.

MR: We need a timer to sample the debugging / profiling information.
You modify the behavior of the guest.

MS: Suspending also alters the behavior.
Interrupts may affect this.

MR: It might be less expensive if we did it in an interrupt handler.

MR: It's easier to do it outside the guest, but there is a

MR: It would make sense to go through all the hypervisors and see what interfaces are available.
Maybe all hypervisors provide this interface and QEMU is the exception.
At least we want to see if there is an interface to inspect memory.

Marco's work:
* https://github.com/mschlumpp/qemu/tree/perf-data-profile
* https://github.com/mschlumpp/qemu/compare/master...mschlumpp:perf-data-profile

RD: Let's get an overview of all the options in a document.
We'll do a comparative analysis and decide what is the best way to approch this.
Gabi, this will be relevant in the context of your master thesis.

### TODOs and Decisions

GM: Take a look into libvirt and libvmi.

GM: Create a document on the possible approaches of doing unikernel profiling and the strengths and weaknesses of each approach.
