---
title: "Profiling / Benchmarking / Introspection WG, November 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, profiling, benchmarking, introspection
datetime: 2023-11-15T10:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- profiling
participants:
- AdinaV
- Gabi
- Marco
- RazvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

* VMI support ( @Adina Vaman )
* Unikraft kernel probes ( @Gabriel Mocanu )
* Other tracks / TODOs

## :closed_book: Discussions

### VMI

AV: I have a created a document with all I did in the last month.

Provide VMI support for Unikraft.

Unikraft doesn't start with libvirt.
I made a tutorial.
I figured out how to do it on all situations.
I added a lot of updates.

AV: I didn't try with other apps, only with Nginx.

AV: I also worked on the VMI part.
I added the needed capabilities in VMI.
I defined the OS-specific initializations.
I added a new OS Unikraft.
It only has an integer at this point.
The raw information not interpreted by the OS works.
I have a memory dump of Nginx.

AV: I ran in debug mode by hand.

AV: We need to interpret the low-level.

AV: There is a bit of difficulty in getting KVM to work.

For KVM a kernel is not upstream.

### Probes

GM: Kprobe like mechanism in Unikraft.

GM: I had a PoC working with hard coded variables.

GM: I ended up with Kprobes in Linux.

GM: We would have an internal library named `ukprobes`.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AV: Long term: libvirt integration without GUI

AV: Share link to libvirt / VMI work, ask for feedback.

AV: Create two asciinema films:

- libvirt
- VMI

AV: Continue VMI work

AV: Try out a different application than Nginx.

GM: Do a recall the way the kprobe mechanism is working.

GM: Open up a thread on symbol resolution.

GM: Longer term: export the information collected by kprobes.
