---
title: "Profiling / Benchmarking / Introspection WG, April 12, 2023"
tags: unikraft, profiling, benchmarking, introspection
datetime: 2023-04-12T10:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AdinaV
- Gabi
- Marco
- Marc
- RazvanD
- Cezar
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### VMI

AV: I started to work on the `libvmi` fork for Unikraft.
It doesn't using Linux offset.
I created of fork of `libvmi`.

AV: `libvmi` is using `libvirt` to inspect the VM.

MR: What is `libvirt` being used with in `libvmi`?

AV: It combines the interfaces provided by `libvirt`.

AV: There is a tool that creates a `.xml`.

MR: The main problem is that you don't know how to specify a kernel, such as with `-initrd`.

AV: It makes sense to have a long term integration of `libvirt`.

MR: I found the option to use the `initrd` and the `kernel` image.
And you can specify those in the UI directly.

### Probes

GM: I was working on kprobes-like mechanism to do hooking throughout unikernel functions.

GM: I was hard-coding values into a PoC.

GM: I was working on a library to provide the API to do the hooking.

GM: I want to work on a draft PR during the weekend.

RD: Create an API that this group can provide a feedback on.
Include structures, macros and function names.
Get inspiration from the Linux kernel `kprobe` API.

MR: Marco, on symbol resolution, would we use my approach?

MS: Yes.
We generate a symbol table at link time, we included in the kernel image, and we provide an API to do symbol resolution dynamically.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AV: Create a minimalistic integration of `libvmi` with Unikraft via `libvirt`.

GM: Work on draft PR that provides the probing interface for Unikraft.

Provide updates on the `#bench-prof` Discord channel.
