---
datetime: 2022-02-23T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RăzvanD
  - Felipe
  - Alex
  - Gabi
  - Cezar
  - Ștefan
  - CristiV
  - RăzvanV
  - PaulV
  - Sergiu
  - Florin
  - AndreiA
---

### Agenda

* Community events
* Technical tracks: ARM support, paging API, ukthread, VMMs, kraft
* Schedule of next meetings
* Others

### Discussions

#### Community Events

ASPLOS tutorial will take place on Tuesday, March 1, 2022.

We plan:
* a German technical community hackathon
* a French technical community hackathon
* an Asian technical community hackathon

We plan for USoC'21 in late summer.

We want to have a Unikraft workshop in conjunction with Xen Summit 2022 in summer, at UPB.

We plan for an article at Linux.com.

We want to have periodic blog posts (once every two weeks) on the Unikraft website: https://unikraft.org/blog/

Blog post schedule: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/26

We aim for diploma / master project students to create a blog post at the end of their project.

We applied for GSoC'22. Results will be available on March 7, 2022.

#### Technical Tracks

FP: The open system call().

RV: We can improve the PR on syscall

RV: There is an update for the ARM64 scanf function.

ȘJ: I kept working on the kraft docs. I will be able to make a PR.

SM: I was pretty busy.
I will get back to work on Loupe.
I'm going to ask Hugo directly.

FH: Profiling one of those applications used in Loupe via timing.
On a security track, restrict as many syscalls as possible.

CC: Dragoș pushed an update to the musl implementation.
There are some small changes.

I did reviews on patches from Michalis on ARM.
I'll wait on updates from Michalis.

PV: I'm aiming to run Unikraft on Hyper-V v2 using UEFI.
It didn't work.
The address for Multiboot info it crashes.
I don't know why, I'll take a look.
Some version don't have support for text mode.

CV: I think UEFI doesn't use multiboot.
You can have the header of multiboot, but UEFI won't provide you any information on multiboot2.

CV: For v2 I think you should use the UEFI system tables.
There are some tables that provide the memory map and the stuff tha multiboot also provides.

PU: This could explain why there is no multiboot info.

GM: I created two PRs.
I tested SQLite on Xen.
I don't have any results yes.

AJ: The only outstanding thing for GRUB support is not to make it KVM dependent or x86 dependent.

#### Next Meetings

No hackathon on Sunday, February 25, 2022.

Next meeting: Wednesday, March 2, 2022, 1pm CET.
We discuss the PRs for release 0.8.

We will schedule meetings on VMM, kraft, binary compat / musl.

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Sync AJ and Aadhi to discuss about GRUB support.

RD: Schedule discussion on runu and kraft.

RD: Schedule next discussions.

FP: Create issue detailing the ARM / ARM64 linux vfscore problem.

GM: Work on Unicore SQLite use case.

SM: Profile Loupe applications using timing.

SJ: Create PR with kraft documentation.

PV: Document further on Hyper-V.

RV: Work on ARM64 SMP PR.
