---
datetime: 2022-02-09T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - RazvanD
  - Cezar
  - Gabi
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - Felipe
  - Ștefan
---

### Agenda

* Post-0.7 release
* Summary of future releases
* Community events: ASPLOS Tutorial, GSoC
* Documentation website
* kraft
* Plans for future releases
* Technical tracks: SMP, event trap interface, image libraries, ARM support, Rust support, paging, vmm
* Others

### Discussions

FH: The availability of multi-core support, not necessarily SMP.

FH: Questions regarding programming languages.

FH: HN is a technical community.

AJ: Long-term: an API page.

AJ: Every internal library should have a README.

CV: Make announcements on the general-annouce channel.

AJ: There were literally no questions.

AJ: It's good we have content out there.

FH: Online conferences don't really work. It doesn't come close to the real deal.

AJ: What's lacking in the kraft Python: the tools to build applications for different programming languages.

AJ: We need to add support for different environments.

AJ: It is not easy at the moment in Python. Rewriting it in Go we will have a single executable binary. One file in the filesystem.

AJ: Now, if you have to install kraft you need to install all the other dev tools.

AJ: Other tools in the community (wayfinder) could be plugged in Go.

AJ: The Kubernetes runu project is also written in Go.

AJ: The whole CI/CD system, with Concourse, we could use the Go parts in Concourse.

AJ: The big Caveat is naming this.

AJ: Either rename the tool or deprecate the old name.

AJ: There should be greater symbiosis for kraft and Unikraft.

AJ: With a single binary you get rid of application dependencies.

PaulV: I'm working on porting the code from the previous team. I'm working on the Hyper-V identification.

PaulV: I implemented (copy-pasted) the virtio-bus, renamed it to hyper-v, renaming the Makefiles. This is copied from Hyper-V.

PaulV: I used the bootloader support for GRUB2 from Cristian Vijelie to do a Unikraft helloworld image.

### TODOs and Decisions

TODO: Add documentation on the programming language support.

TODO RD: GSoC application

AJ: CI/CD integration for documentation.
