---
datetime: 2022-01-19T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - 
  - Alexander Jun 
  - Sergiu Moga
  - Felipe Huici
  - Cristi Vijelie
  - Cezar Craciunoiu
  - Gaulthier Gain
  - Dennis
  - Gabi Mocanu
  - Stefan Jumarea
---

### Agenda

* Push for PR reviews (release 0.7 - Monday, January 31, 2022)
* ~~SMP~~ (No update).
* ~~ARM~~ (No update).
* Platform support (VMware, Hyper-V, Firecraker) -- Update provided on channel by Paul Ungureanu
* ~~Rust~~  (No update).
* fixdep
* ~~Loupe~~
* IDE / kraft
* CI/CD + governance
* Documentation website
* PR walkthrough
* Other topics

### Discussions

- AJ: Hi, i'll be minuting the meeting today as Razvan could not make it.
- AJ: Let's talk about PR reviews and the release at the end.
- CC: Could not focus on fixdep until Simon returns.  Current progress relies on intermediate files generated with `gcc` output to determine dependencies.
- AJ: Had a meeting with Adina, Razvan and Stefan about VSCode extension and kraft.  We decided that the extension is in good shape already and just needs to be released.  To coincide with with the next unikraft release.  Just needs a CI pipeline to generate the extension (`.vsix`) and to publish it to the marketplace.
- AJ: With regard to `kraft`, just needs a tag and then to be released. CI/CD pipeline for debian needs to be fixed.
- AJ: New documentation website requires content assignment, meeting to be held Friday with Razvan.

### TODOs and Decisions

* AJ to organise currently assigned PRs with the next release, many untagged.
* GM to review pr lib-newli
* Everyone who has been assigned PRs to perform reviews.
* AJ to fix merge pipeline for libs.
