---
datetime: 2022-07-28T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - Cezar
  - Marc
  - RăzvanV
  - RăzvanD
  - AlexJ
  - Eduard
  - Gabi
  - ȘtefanJ
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Release 0.10
* Updates

## Discussions

### Community summary

Unikraft community meeting settled for October 15-16, 2022.

Unikrat Summer of Code 2022 hapenning for 10 days: August 29-September 9, 2022.

Munich hackathon settled for October 22-23, 2022.

### Release 0.10

Will happen around August 4-5, 2022.

Unikraft Musl support will be in a separate branch part of the release.

### Updates

CC: I reviewed the PRs from Marc.

CC: There is one last thing that Marc must be done.

CC: Mark memory ballooning as draft.
It needs rearchitecting.

RV: I created the PR on syscall shim.

RV: Paging support for ARM64 for Michalis.

RV: No progress on GICv3.

GM: I checked the kraftkit repository.

GM: I have provided some issues.

SJ: I did a review on Sebastian's PR.

SJ: Marc updated the posix-user PR.

SJ: I'm looking into paging for ARM64.

EV: I included information on reproducing my results.

RD: Ask someone to check the PR on RISC-V support.

EV: I took a look into the SMP implementation for RISC-V.
Both RISC-V and ARM64 use the DTB.
There are many parts that are common.

AJ: I've been working on ukbuild.
ukbuild involves the build system.
The subsystem that involves ukbuild understands Make and manages the lifecycle of Makefiles.

AJ: If you want, you should see the kraft repository.

MR: The PRs are done for the SMP, eventpoll, are updated.

MR: I completed the review for the PR that reduced dependency of ARM.
This was a PR from Robert.

MR: I have another PR related to the build system.
This PR should also be OK.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Talk to Simon about the PRs:
* 4 PRs on eventpoll, posix-socket driver

RD: Approve PR on a description for the release.

EV: Post message on #arm channel regarding SMP planning for RISC-V.

GM: By 26th August 2022, documention of profiling Unikraft instances.

RD: Check PR on syscall shim.

RD: Post issue on newlib messing up DTS.
