---
datetime: 2022-02-16T13:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RăzvanD
  - Felipe
  - Alex
  - Gabi
  - Cezar
  - Ștefan
  - CristiV
  - RăzvanV
  - PaulV
---

### Agenda

* Community events
* Technical tracks: ARM support, paging API, ukthread, VMMs, kraft
* Porting hackathon (on Saturday)
* Others

### Discussions

ASPLOS'22: documentation to be updated, post by AlexJ

GSoC'22: Plan to complete application this weekend (February 21, 2022)

Xen Summit: In discussions to July / August 2022 at UPB

German Hackathon: Discussion with Stefan Lankes tomorrow.

Documentation integration PRs

New view: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/24/views/1

New PRs created by Marc, to be allocated

Prioritize PR and review quality

Simon working in ukthread, unblocking musl

Saturday hackathon to include application porting work (from March)

Meeting on kraft: Friday, February 18, 2022, 3:30pm CET

Meeting on VMM: Thursday, February 17, 2022, 11:30am CET

#### ARM

RV: Solving the syscall issue on ARM64 + KVM.

RV: Paging support: Michalis reviews

RV: Useful comments from Michalis and Rene on ARM SMP.

RD: RTC driver subsystem

SMP + R-Pi support for 0.9 release (end of May 2022)

RV: Update on the signal PR created by Sharan. There are some incompatibilities that I will look into.

#### VMM

PV: I enabled the hypercall page. I defined it in the entry.S file. It's hardcoded, for the moment.

PV: I'm now looking into how we can register an interrupt handler triggered by the hypervisor at the VM startup to publish virtual devices.

PV: Looking for the network device.

#### kraft

Some open reviewed PRs: https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/pulls

AJ: There are some pipelines for kraft.

#### Others

CV: Something I discussed a while ago. We need to store the bootloader information from all bootloaders in a single way.

CV: I did it because I see both PV and PU Multiboot2, which relies on GRUB update.

CV: Both the PR bootloader and the storage PR are required for the VMM work.

GM: PRs on the documentation side.

SJ/CC: No updates.

### TODOs and Decisions

AJ: Update the ASPLOS22 Unikraft tutorial post + distribution

RD/FH: Ping George about a Unikraft collacated event

SK/FH: Ping Laurent about an Asia Hackathon (big in Japan!)

AJ: Integrate documentation PRs: https://github.com/unikraft/docs/pulls

RD: Fix build issues on ARM (as Unikraft PRs)

AJ/RD: (After fixing build issues) Integrate kraft PRs: https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/pulls

CV: Check with Adhi about the GRUB bootloader work.
