---
datetime: 2022-04-14T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - RăzvanD
  - AlexJ
  - Cezar
  - CristiV
  - Gabi
  - Hugo
  - Marc
  - RaduN
  - RăzvanV
  - Sergiu
  - Simon
  - Vlad
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Projects / people updates
  * ARM (RăzvanV, Michalis)
  * Paging support (Marc, Michalis, Florin)
  * ukthread / Musl / clone (Simon, Dragoș)
  * VSCode IDE (Adina, Ștefan)
  * procfs (AndreiM)
  * Firecracker support (AndreiT)
  * VMware support (PaulU)
  * Hyper-V support (PaulV)
  * Randomness support (Sebastian, Michalis)
  * SMP (Marc, Michalis, Rene, RăzvanV, CristiV)
  * Bootloader support (CristiV, Aadhi)
  * Uniprof (Gabi)
  * Gcov (AlexP, RăzvanD)
  * SSH server @Alexandra Pirvulescu
  * Xen clone-based fuzzing (Radu)
  * Generic OS / unkernel fuzzing (Teo)
  * Memory randomization / deduplication (Terry)
  * Javascript support (AlexA)
  * Rust support (Vlad, Dennis, DanU)
  * Baremetal support (adminy)
  * kraft / runu / kraftkit (AlexJ, Ștefan, Gabi, AndreiA)
  * CI/CD (AlexJ)
  * synchronization / futexes (Adina)
  * on hold / to be picked up: security assessment, driver shim, DLang support, RISC-V, virtio-mmio/vsock integration
* Others

## Discussions

### Community summary

Deadline for GSoC applicants: April 19, 2022.
We'll see the applicants then.

Hackathon
* Lyon, May 14-15, 2022
* Aache, June 26-27, 2022

### Projects / people updates

**ARM**

RV: A meeting on Monday.
I will complete the SMP implementation by April.
I received a review from Rene.

**Paging support**

MR: MP will work on this in May.

**ukthread / Musl / clone**

SK: We continue integrating Musl into the new version of the threading API.
Dragoș is working on replacing binary system calls with actual function calls in Musl.

SK: The most complicated system call will be the clone call.

**VSCode IDE**

AJ: VSCode is published in the VSCode IDE market place: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Unikraft.unikraft-ide-vscode

AJ: Information about known issues need to be fixed.

AJ: It should be possible to install kraft.

**procfs**

AndreiM has been making progress adapting RAMFS.

**Firecracker support**

AT: Worked on virtio-mmio draft and managed to run app-httpreply on KVM x86 (using microvm flag of qemu).
Currently working to bring virtio-mmio and booting part of Firecracker to Unikraft:latest.

**VMware support**

PU: vmxnet3 device is enumerated.
Working on DPDK-backed driver.

**Hyper-V support**

PV: Continue working on vmbus communication channel.

**Randomness support**

To get update from Sebastian.

**SMP**

To be done in May.

**Bootloader support**

VB: Check the PR on bootinfo.

Multiboot postponed for May.

**Uniprof**

GM: I did flame graphs.
I expect the profiling meeting.

**Gcov**

AP: I started a rework on Gcov to only include the coverage part for now (without profiling).

**SSH server**

APv: To start implementation

**Xen clone-based fuzzing**

RN: The buffer is not properly cleaned.

**Generic OS / unikernel fuzzing**

TA: Made progress interpreting the trace information from Intel PT.

**Memory randomization / deduplication**

To get update from Gaulthier / Terry.

**Javascript support**

V8 status:
* I've made some progress concerning lib dependencies;
* I found a file with missing defines and I am thinking that the links from Makefile.uk should be updated;

**Rust support**

VB: I have a student, Dan, working on an allocator on Rust.
He's working on integrating Cargo in Unikraft.
It will be a library outside of Unikraft.

VB: Cargo would do dependency management, it would pull the crate.
Otherwise you would have to pull them manually.

VB: We are moving slowly and getting there.

**Baremetal support**

RD: To schedule meeting.

**kraft / runu / kraftkit**

AJ: We've created a small team working on different components of the future kraftkit tool.
The pkgu tool will be similar to `apt-get`.

**CI/CD**

RD: Ping Sergiu on the CI/CD at UPB.

**synchronization / futexes**

AS: Use Marc's suggestions to test sync implementation of printing.

AS: Wait for Simon to grab futexes work.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Schedule VSCode extension installation.

GM: Schedule hackathon installation.

AS: Install kraft using the extension.

SM: Post questions on randomness suppoet.

VB: Look into the bootinfo PR.

RD: Schedule profiling discussions.

RD: Schedule the baremetal support discussion

RD: Schedule driver subsystem
