---
datetime: 2022-05-16T10:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - community
participants:
  - AlexJ
  - Cezar
  - ȘtefanJ
  - AndreiM
  - RăzvanD
---

## Agenda

* Community summary
* Projects / People
* Others

## Discussions

### Community Summary

Aachen hackathon

China / SE Asia - online - July 2022

USoC - August / September 2022

Unikraft community escape - September 2022

Manchester - October / November 2022

0.10 release: July 25, 2022: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/9

Musl, VM on ARM, SMP on x86, ukstore dynamic, posix socket driver, uksched, TLS, clone

### Projects / People

List of contributors: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10DuQCr6c65Lr2Q55LzoKTnadJz8rcs4L2u0CMDR7CvM/edit?usp=sharing

Planning: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ojcDCFvYHgAcgkUZNp1vmhOSZmV-UK7DUBpmZk7A3tA/edit?usp=sharing

AJ: I settled different milestones for the kraftkit project.

AJ: We will have an early release in a month's time.
Then, the parity version (kraftkit vs kraft)
Then, an initial public release.
That extends up until October.

AJ: The internal API has been changing so dramatically so I need to make amendements.
The initial contributors release will allow parallelization of tasks.

AJ: I would love for the GitHub governance to synchronize GitHub + Discord and others.

AJ: Are other using some integration with team roles

There would be people that continously looking through issues.

RD: We are better at getting things done.
We need to improve maintaining items: after something is done: owne the track: maintain issues, add / propose features.

RD: People are busy with implementing and reviewing, and it takes time to also do issue management.

AJ: You would have a quick way of filtering issues in an automated fashion.

A bot could help with prioritizing items that are stale.

AJ: GitHub plans to work on a timeline view of the project board.

AJ: With the QEMU command you can add devices to mount.

## TODOs and Decisions

TODO: synchronization between GitHub teams and the document on Google Drive: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10DuQCr6c65Lr2Q55LzoKTnadJz8rcs4L2u0CMDR7CvM/edit#gid=0

TODO: synchronization between and Discord

RD: Design a flow chart of managing tasks for contributors and tasks

CC: Contact Simon on fixdep

AJ: Add issue to output JSON from uktest

AJ: Look into bots that report /mark stale issue

RD: Plan to move documents on GitHub

RD: Schedule talk with Simon on procfs

AM: Please create a README.md inside the library

AJ: Create draft PRs with uktests ported for vfscore, netdev and others
