---
datetime: 2022-06-10T17:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - gsoc
participants:
  - Marc
  - Hugo
  - RăzvanD
  - Vlad
  - CristiV
  - Sairaj
  - Maria
  - Xiangyi
  - Cezar
---

### Agenda

Introduction
GSoC logistics
GSoC expectations

### Discussions

Expectations:
* Students should have the initiative, own the project, contact the mentor at any time.
* Students should use, as much as possible the public Discord channels for questions.
* Mentors + students agree on a regular meeting schedule.
* Students are invited to be part of the weekly community meeting.
* Student will do a blog post once every two weeks with their update.
* We will have a monthy GSoC'22 discussion (July, August, September) to catch up on what everyone is doing.
* Students should create (draft) PRs as soon as they can to allow people in the community (and outside of it) to check out their work.
* Ask for support in the community in case you require anything: computing resources, remote systems, permissions.

XM: What if we are doing a larger chunk of work?

RD: The idea is to submit a draft PR as soon as you have something working, even if it's far from from perfect, even if it's ugly / not-clean.

MR: What is expected in the mid-evaluation?

RD: It's going to be a pass / fail.
Both mentors and students will need to submit a summary of their work.

GSoC22 Timeline: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline

RD: Mentors and students would agree on a common meeting schedule

GSoC projects officially start on Monday, June 13, 2022

The first set of blog posts will happen in the June 27-30, 2022 week, based on work done between June 13 and June 26, 2022.

Phase 1 evaluation will happen in the July 25-29, 2022 week.

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Timeline details, look into requirements for evaluation

Mentors + students: agree on regular meeting schedule

Next GSoC22 group meeting will happen around July 10, 2022
