---
datetime: 2022-07-04T17:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Google Meet
teams:
  - gsoc
participants:
  - Sairaj Kodilkar (SK)
  - Marc Rittinghaus (MR)
  - Cristian Vijelie (CV)
---

### Agenda

Status update
Questions

### Discussions

SK: Found issue on ARM64 SMP. When you call lcpu_halt_to() a secondary core will not wake up again

MR: This might be because its a system global timer and the interrupt is always redirected to bootstrap CPU instead of secondary CPU. When we know if this is the case we include Michalis Pappas as he has most experience with ARM platform and perhaps knows how to fix this.

SK: I could continue testing by just commenting out the call to lcpu_halt_to() in the scheduler

SK: I am confident that reader-writer lock works.

MR: Good work on the reader-writer lock!

MR: We have two options to continue. Further work on data structures and primitives or continue with integrating the new primitives in system components to make them SMP-safe. For now we should stick to continue work on data structures but not for too long.

SK: Yes, problem with actually using the new primitives is that the waitqueue in the scheduler is not synchronized. When will Simon Kuenzer have the SMP scheduler?

MR: Simon is on vacation and actually not working directly on an SMP scheduler. He is preparing the ground by updating the API and adjusting things like thread context switches, making process/scheduling APIs compatible with expectation on Linux and musl c library (e.g., clone system call), etc. A true SMP scheduler won't come during the GSOC period.

SK: Should I keep the locks as-is or change them somehow?

MR: This needs further discussion also with Simon Kuenzer on how waitqueues are expected to be working with the new API. Leave it as-is for now.

MR: Next you can work on a more user-friendly condition variable based on the waitqueue. Afterwards, you could look into an atomic singly-linked list. But then we might want to change direction so that we don not spent time on things not needed at the moment.

SK: Should it be a new implementation for the atomic list or change the existing. Because the user might not always need an atomic version.

MR: Make a new one that depending on CONFIG_HAVE_SMP falls back to a non-atomic version for uniprocessor systems

MR: One question: Is the mutex still able to do recursive locking?

SK: Yes, also the reader-writer locks.

MR: I am thinking if we should have non-recursive versions per default and let the user use a recursive one (at compile-time) only if he really needs it. But that only makes sense if the implementation becomes faster this way. It must not introduce additional complexity.

SK: There are additional bits available for indicating recursivness.

MR: This will also need some more discussion on the SMP channel if we should try this out

### TODOs and Decisions

- SK: Perform an experiment to determine if bootstrap CPU receives interrupt from lcpu_halt_to() call on secondary CPU.
- SK: Work on condition variable and atomic singly-linked list
- SK: Find out if it makes sense from a performance perspective to have a non-recursive version of the locks and if this is the case, how this could be implemented in an elegant way so that most of the code is reused and not duplicated
