---
datetime: 2022-06-20T17:30:26+01:00
location: Online, Google Meet
teams:
  - gsoc
participants:
  - Sairaj Kodilkar (SK)
  - Marc Rittinghaus (MR)
---

### Agenda

Status update
Questions

### Discussions

SK: Can we just create one scheduler instance per core to avoid having to synchronize them

MR: Yes, from a design perspective this should be allowed. But that is of course dependent on the implementation of the scheduler

SK: For testing of mutex and semaphore I would prefer one instance per core. Should not be part of final PR. Is this ok?

MR: Sure. Do whatever it takes to do proper testing. As long as it does not end up in the PR I don't care. Optimally, keep a repository with the test code so that reviewers can also use this code

SK: Have difficulties running qemu-system-aarch64. Crashes at beginning with error message

MR: This is the command line I use: qemu-system-aarch64 -machine virt,gic-version=2 -kernel build/unikraft_kvm-arm64 -nographic -cpu cortex-a53 -smp cores=4,threads=1,sockets=1 -s

SK: I tried it. It works.

SK: Also have difficulties with building Unikraft for ARM. Tried different operating systems. Had to use a more recent version of Ubuntu because dependency of cross compiler on modern glibc unsatisfied on older version

MR: I responded to your issue on github. It works for me with Ubuntu 20.04 and GCC 9.4. Use the default cross compiler that comes with the distribution. It has all the dependencies available

MR: But don't waste too much time. Just continue using system at UPB provided by Razvan

SK: Sure

SK: Can I access all functions in main?

MR: Yes, there are no protections between the application and kernel

SK+MR: [discussing general design ideas of unikernels vs. general-purpose OSs]

SK: Should interrupts be disabled during the critical section of mutex?

MR: No, only for the duration that is necessary to ensure proper acquisition/release of mutex

SK: Is there a deadline or specific tasks until the end of this week?

MR: No, I don't want to impose deadline on you, but of course go as quickly as possible. Have testing of mutex + semphore ready and clean up PR for reviewers to look at

SK: OK

### TODOs and Decisions

- SK: Have testing of mutex + semphore ready and clean up PR for reviewers to look at until end of week
