---
title: "GSoC22: Shadow Stack, August 1, 2022"
tags: unikraft, shadow-stack, arm64
datetime: 2022-08-01T15:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- gsoc
participants:
- Răzvan
- Vlad
- Maria
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps
- TODO

## :closed_book: Discussions

MS: I didn't test `Redis` with a client on `ARM64`.

MS: I'll talk to Eduard to ask about his approach.

MS: Seems like there is an issue regarding requests for this, I'll look for a quick fix.

MS: I still get some errors for `SQLite` and `nginx` on `AArch64`.

RD: As you are now quite familiar with Unikraft and you've experienced a fair share of issues and errors, try to provide a plan for the remaining 6 weeks for GSoC.

RD: Every week should have a milestone to be achieved.

RD: Your GSoC project now has a side quest: testing Unikraft apps for `AArch64` and making sure everything works fine.

RD: Don't forget about `CET` and other security mechanisms related to Shadow Stack.

MS: I'll need more time for that.

VB: Seems like `CET` isn't that much related to Shadow Stack, however, you must first understand it really well.

RD: We should meet 2 times a week just to make sure we move fast enough.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MS: Ask the community about tests on complex apps using `gcc` and `clang` for `AArch64`.

MS: Continue to investigate complex apps on `AArch64`.

MS: Provide a plan for the next 6 weeks of GSoC.

MS: Move your repos on Unikraft-UPB.

RD: Check `SQLite` issue on `ARM64`.

RD: Check Maria's PR for [`redis`](https://github.com/unikraft/app-redis/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed).

RD: Check Maria's [documentation](https://github.com/mariasfiraiala/scs-work/blob/master/utils/doc-scs-arm-vs-x86.md) for issue with Shadow Stack on `x86`.

RD: Check all blogs for GSoC.

RD: Create issues for `9pfs` on `AArch64` and `limits.h` for `newlib`.

VB: Investigate optimizations for Shadow Stack implemented for [`Android`](https://android-review.googlesource.com/c/kernel/common/+/694163).
