---
datetime: 2021-12-20T18:00:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - Alex
  - RazvanD
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - Aadhi
  - Simon
  - Marc
  - Sergiu
---

### Agenda

* current bootloader work
* future action points

### Discussions

SM: I just a made a basic simple bootloader that can bring a helloworld application. It just loads the unikernel.

SK: It's written in assembly?

SM: Yes, just to see it running.

SM: It starts in real-mode, jumps to unreal mode, it loads the ELF, gets the memory, jumps to the protected 

SM: We have full control over the loading.

SM: QEMU is doing the mapping now.

CV: It's not entirely by QEMU and multiboot.

MR: QEMU searches for some signatures and maps certain sections.

SK: There is a raw device attached to QEMU.

SK: For Xen there is the xl tool stack that does the loading. There are some placeholders for the image. One page for the hypercall and one for some configuration options.

SK: We could randomize the entire space while booting for the bootloader.

SK: For EFI the bootloader needs to speak to that 

SK: In case of a bootloader we have full control: zipping the image, wrapping the filesystem inside the image, randomizing the address space.

MR: For address randomization, we can move it to the address space.

AJ: We can have two unikernels as one: multiple architectures or different compile-time specialization techniques. One for short-lived packets and one for the larger packets.

SK: One have multiple shared libraries and then link at runtime.

CV: When I tried to use multibootv2, GRUB is required.

SK: GRUB is provided before your bootloader.

SK: EFI directly works with the filesytem.

AK: I was getting GRUB to work with Unikernel images.
The default problem is it installs all modules that you don't really need: 3 MB.
We minimized to 1MB for a helloworld image.

AK: For the ISO image I was able to run to construct a helloworld + sqlite ISO.
I tried to boot them in VBox.
We could use our own bootloader, we can still boot Linux.

AJ: The idea of having a choice between a minimal compliant init system is nice. The option to switch between different bootloaders or boot options such as multiboot / multboot2 / UEFI. Having to get the final options that will end up in GRUB / syslinux.

RD: What is the prime benefit of this?

AJ: Increasing configurability.
AJ: To consider how kraft is integrated.

SK: To think how we pack stuff, an ISO or some other way.

AJ: The Unikraft core repository should be aware of the packaging options.

SK: A disc requires a filesystem that will be integrated in bootloaders.

SK: We need code to pase EFI. So that we can enable build options. To create EFI images for KVM instead of multiboot2.

SK: We need to parse EFI, syslinux-specific stuff.

SK: Then I will look into have a loading API to have a Unikraft image separated from this step. Then we can discuss where the separation is going to happen.

MR: Create a EFI compatible and get the first character out. Then get a Unikraft boot.

CV: Currently there is a multiboot structure and some other bootloaders may require a different structure.

MR: The environment is different when you use Xen or multiboot.

SK: The multiboot-specific part needs to be moved out of setup.c.

CV: We can have a split of setup.c. You can do it in a dirty way, and then move to multiboot. I would replace them and prepare them for EFI.

SK: Then the 2nd step would be the construction of a pre-loader or whatever.

SK: Maybe jump directly to a bootloader specific entrypoint.

SK: You could keep them as individual pieces (binaries) and we will bake them together within a final image. Maybe they can coexist in a single binary.

MR: You could start booting in v1 and someone else could work with EFI.

SK: GRUB support is still required. This still makes sense.

SK: I task would be starting with the support scripts to create different images GRUB and syslinux.

AK: Would I be able to assume we would be using Multiboot.

SK: You need to set up a multiboot environment using GRUB to boot.

SK: Nice tooling and nice scripting would be useful for the project.

SK: Some time we may want to do a initramfs with everythin and then the bootprocess will simply be placing a pointer.

### TODOs and Decisions

* CV: Draft a diagram with the boot process.
* RD: Schedule a call with CristiV to clarify and document the current status and possible next steps.
* AK: Continue work on GRUB support.
* RD: Schedule a new meeting in January 2022.
