---
title: "Booting WG, March 16, 2023"
tags: unikraft, booting, boot, bootloaders
datetime: 2023-03-16T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- boot
participants:
- Simon
- Marc
- Dragoș
- Sergiu
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

QEMU implements the Linux boot protocol and that's why it's able to boot it.

I saw this in the documentation.

Linux doesn't use Multiboot and Multiboot2.

Andrei Topală tried to hack part of it.
He added that part of his Firecracker PR.

Regarding Xen, it supports Multiboot, Multiboot2 and PVH.

CV: Initially I used Multiboot2 for ACPI.

Then PaulU and PaulV used that for their work.

Multiboot2 is not integrated in QEMU upstream.

Regarding UEFI, I looked into various way in achieving booting.
UEFI needs a PE file, and there is a conversion tool.

There is a configuration in the Linux kernel (`config_efi_stub`).
That configuration is enabled by default in the x86_64 defconfig.

The easiest one is the way FreeBSD way.
They leave the kernel as it used, and then uses a small UEFI machine.

For uBoot, Unikraft needs to know the Linux boot protocol.

An idea is to have the Linux boot protocol, starting from what Andrei Topală did and make it work with uBoot and GRUB.

For UEFI, my suggestion is to use the FreeBSD approach with `gnu_efi` and `objcopy`.
The Linux kernel doesn't have the configuration that enable the EFI build.

SK: Marc is doing an intermediary representation, like a Unikraft boot protocol.

Marc is also influencing is the plat arch.

SK: It makes sense to work on the lower-layers of the Unikraft boot protocol and UEFI.
But bare in mind that there is a refactoring happenning.

Marc is not working on the early code.

The Linux boot protocol will enable all platforms for OS.

SM: If Unikraft is bootable by uBoot, because this will

SK: The version we have now on Firecracker is pretty hacky?
What's missing?

SM: The fields of the struct boot_param are missing.

CV: AndreiT only implemented what he required for Firecracker support.

SM: He also did hardcoding of this.

MR: The Linux boot protocol it doesn't make sense, I'm working on this.

SM: For example, some of the fields are padded.
Firecracker hard-codes the address of the param and puts that in the RSI register.
The pre-kernel should be able to grabs the params from any address as long as its part of the RSI register.

MR: We don't have the padding fields.
The access of the specification.

MR: If you want to take a look in ARM, I'm only interested in x86.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

SM: Start looking in the `gnu_efi` approach that FreeBSD is doing.
