---
title: "Booting WG, March 30, 2023"
tags: unikraft, bootloaders, uefi, kaslr
datetime: 2023-04-13T14:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- booting
participants:
- Dragos Petre
- Sergiu Moga
- Marc Rittinghaus
- Simon Kuenzer
- Razvan Deaconescu
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

SM: Explains the script that achieves PIE for KVM. Added another symbol for the base address. The script does some sanity checks.

MR: Can you retrieve the value from the image?

SK: Maybe we can detect the number of relocations rather than puting them staticly?

MR/SK: You can use pushsection/popsection

SK: It would be perfect to determine the number of relocations at compile time.

SK: Is BASE_ADDR provided by the linker?

SM: Yes, it is a defined symbol.

SK: Why is the base address lost?

SM: Generates a relocaiton entry in .rela.dyn which the relocator will relocate, thus overwriting it.

SK: What if you used the symbol directly instead of the lt_baddr variable?

SM: It wouldn't work because, on x86 for example, is resolved to a %rip relative reference

SK: Are lt and rt the same on x86?

SM: For ARM it generates an entry in .rela.dyn, but for %rip it is resolved to an %rip relative reference

SM: Managed to integrate ukplat_memregion into ARM kvm and x86 xen.

MR: Added the dtb just to have faster access?

SM: Yes, as it is used very often.

MR: The allocation was part of the setup, and I nededed it for the bootstack, so I added this function to create new memory regions.
Good for generalizing it!

MR/SK: To spilt that function into two. One to scan and one to cut memory regions. This saves looping time.

SM: Problems with upstream QEMU.

SM: Plan to make ARM use the same page initialization funciton as x86.

SM: Does unikraft initialize its heap based on thinking that the memory is contigous?

MR: The virtual memory is with demand paging so it does not matter.

SM: But what if ukvmem is disabled?

MR: Yes, it is a bug.

SM: Assign the heap the largest contigous memory.

MR: You could lose too much memory like this.

SM: Then iterate through all free physical memory regions and linearly map them
from a virtual standpoint

MR: Yes, that's the way to go

DP: continued reducing the size of the bootimage -  got it to 146kib

RD: how much was it at the beginning

DP: at the beginning 194kib, right now 146kib

DP: I think it is related to the platform

MR: have u used the bloatee tool?

DP: I only used objdump and nm

DP: I can remove the print anytime, but the others are an issue because they are
    related to the platform

DP: I will work on removing platform libraries as well.

DP: How does this image being included in the bigger image work?

MR: The ELF section for the binary that you do with objcopy + ld script

DP: I have a bug related to UK schedule: incorrect address at vaddr 0, just a
    warning but image won't run on qemu
    if I select uksched library and remove everything from the makefile, it builds ok
    but image won't boot

MR: if u have this -y uksched config

SK: what is the warning?

DP: empty loadable segment by strip

SK: no reason why this could be triggered by uksched

MR: paste the message in the chat, so Marco can also see it

### TODOs and Decisions

* SM: Finish integrating ukplat_memregion on Xen x86 and ARM KVM
* DP: Make the image even smaller and check the issue with uksched with Marco
