---
title: "Booting WG, March 30, 2023"
tags: unikraft, bootloaders, uefi, kaslr
datetime: 2023-03-30T14:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- booting
participants:
- Dragos Petre
- Sergiu Moga
- Marc Rittinghaus
- Simon Kuenzer
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

SM: Working branch for x86. Working on the ARM version for EFI.

SM: Discussig the PIE PR:

Python script to create the .uk_relocs sections containing custom relocations

Self relocator: 3 layers of addressing (base {phys|virt}address, base physical address, desired base virtual address)

Custom relocations generated through symbols inserted by ur_* assembly macro's

SK: Drop the dependencies on Python (use C) in the future

MR: What would be the base address and the address that you supply for relocation?

SM: The relocator will know of three base addresses: the base physical address (r_paddr), the base current address (virt or phys, it does not need to know) and the desired
base virt address (for KASLR for example).

MR, SK: Add a picture in the PR to help to understand how it works.

MR: Does this script run before the image is built?

SM: Yes, part of a new build rule UK_RELOC

SM: The page tables are updated to point to the correct phys address even after relocation.

SM: Had to hardcode some addresses in the multiboot entry, perhaps add a CONFIG_ or macro for that base address value instead.

SM: For ARM it just uses a GAS directive :lo12:, very simple.

SM: x86 working, loading UEFI at random addresses.

MR: Looks very good, very flexible!

SK: What is the first python script for, the one that converts the ELF64 to ELF32?

MR,  SM: When QEMU looks for the multiboot compliant kernel it expectes an ELF32. The script simply converts the ELF64 Header, Program Headers and Section Headers to their ELF32 equivalents.

SM: Should make the default image 64-bit?

MR: If you choose the multiboot library this include the conversion. For EFI, it doesn't need the conversion.

SM: In EFI case, thought to remove the dynamic sections for having a smaller image. Getting warnings when using objdump/readelf tools, but works with no problems on the debugging image, the one that matters for this use case. Works with 64-bit debug image.

SM: Wrote own EFI definitions. Names too long, but other projects keep them wrt to the spec.

MR, SK: It is ok as others use them like this.

SK: Add the ability to build UEFI images to the script that helps building the GRUB image.

SK: Change the name to be more general and try generate an iso image.

SM: Added additional option to prioritize -append over the one from the file system.

SM: If I don't drop the memory under 1MiB the kernel does not load. I noticed that in your multiboot.c code you also drop those memory regions. Why

MR: In the static page tables are verious regions that are reserved. I didn't want to represent the entire memory on the memory regions. (keep droping those regins)

MR: Put some functionality in a separate library.

SK: Upstream it before the re-arch.

SM: Not yet, I want to also add EFI support for ARM and Xen, as well as adjust ACPI support for a post-UEFI environment.

SK: Changes in the PR: choose between building the EFI or multiboot. Separate it now before Marco's PR.

SM: After existing boot services, call arch/plat dependent exit functions. Is this a good idea?

SK,MR: A good idea.

SK: Which stack is used for lcpu_start64? Is it reusing the same stack as uk_efi_jmp_to_kern()?

MR: lcpu_start64 is designed to use no stack.

SM: The function will never be able to return.

MR: uk_efi_jmp_to_kern() could return early based on errors. It is not a no-return function. Have the uk_efi_jmp_to_kern() have a return if there is an issue before lcpu_start64.

MR: When can you create a PR?

SM: After ARM, XEN support and ACPI adjustment

DP: Did some measurements on the minboot image

DP: Will keep working on what I had on the plate since last time

DP: Space measurements: 154KiB

DP: Investigate what bloats the image and make it smaller

DP: Send the measurements to Discord

MR: linker option to see what symbols are placed at what address/place in file

MR: use a tool to see what bloats the binary

MR: get a list of the largest things in the binary
