---
title: "Rust WG, October 26, 2022"
tags: unikraft, rust
datetime: 2022-10-26T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- rust
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Dennis
- Martin
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Current status
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: I'll ping Vlad about the current state of things.

DK: I modified the build system such that `Cargo.toml` files as build files.

DK: What you would probably do is overwrite the `run` command so Cargo can still compile that.
And say that Cargo should call the Unikraft build system.

MK: Why do we need Unikraft to know what Cargo is.

DK: This allows the use of the tooling system.

MK: You could call the build system from Cargo.

MK: I'm trying to get the benefit of letting Unikraft know of the Cargo-build system.

DK: It's basically the simplicity, to make it easy to invoke Rust specific build / run.

MK: So we have the option to have a Unikraft-centric build process or a Cargo / Rust centric build process.

DK: The two approaches could coexist.

RD: I think it makes sense for the two approaches to coexist.
I think a Unikraft-centric build process is relevant for the tooling system.
I will ask Vlad for updates.

RD: Dennis, is there anything in the Unikraft core repository else required to rewrite components in Rust?

DK: No, this has been in place for a while.

RD: What about porting applications / libraries written in Rust?
Anything else required in the Unikraft core repository?

DK: I'm not sure, I'll have to think more about that.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

DK: Strip PR 261 to the minimal requirements for build system support for Cargo.

RD: Talk to Vlad about current state of things.

RD: Ask Alex about the proper build model considering the tooling.

DK: Think about Unikraft core repository requirements for Rust application porting.
