---
datetime: 2022-04-22T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - drivers
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Simon
  - RăzvanV
  - Marin (`adminy`)
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

* Status on R-Pi baremetal work
* Next steps

### Discussions

RD: The goal of this meeting is to get a status update from `adminy` and agree on the next steps.

MB: I've been looking at getting this working with R-Pi 3b, R-Pi 4b.
I'm also using SOQuartz: https://wiki.pine64.org/wiki/SOQuartz

MB: I tried to build helloworld.
I was struggling with getting it to boot on 3b.
I have issues building on Docker on MacOS.
I tried to put it on Pi but it doesn't work.

SK: There was no video output, you should use the serial console for that.

MP: Did you boot on Generic emulation or R-Pi on QEMU?

MB: I was using generic emulation.

SK: The R-Pi has a weird procedure that uses the GPU t boot.

MB: For the R-Pi you can use the USB stick as boot, it's configurable.

On the SOQuartz, there is no GPU magic happening.
You could set you own bootloader.

With SOQuartz I was able to go further.

MP: I would suggest you used QEMU with R-Pi where you could use GPU.

Then you could get it to boot on actual hardware.

Unless, of course, you have a JTAG connected to the real hardware, which is difficult.

MP: Definitely start with QEMU.
Stick to one thing and stick to that.
You could open too many fronts and get lost.

MP: What is different for R-Pi at the platform level.
As long as your entry point is correct there is only a matter of getting UART.

MB: The repository has something related to video.

MP: In the future, if we move to the runtime configuration, we can make a reference platform implementation inside Unikraft core.
That will work for more platforms (KVM or baremetal).

MP: Maybe we should think twice before introducing a new platform.
Then we can make KVM a generic ARM-baremetal reference.

MP: If we remove those parts, KVM will be a generic platform.

SK: For the drivers part, this is useful as well.
But it will require some rearchitecting of the platform code.

SK: Some parts are to be left out.
For example, virtio should be only part of the platforms that require it.

SK: The question is where to place the code for `plat/common` and `plat/<platform_name>`.

MP: At OpenSynergy, we used Makefile in their own folder in Unikraft.

MB: For the mailbox feature for R-Pi, how would that work?
Would that have its own driver?

MP: This will likely have a subsystem with its drivers.

SK: An open item to make R-Pi really interesting is networking.
We currently don't have a driver to work.

MP: This has a potential for a Unikraft boost.
A lot of people have a R-Pi and that would be really interesting.

MB: If I were to get Firecracker working on R-Pi that would be awesome.

RD: Let's first go for Unikraft on R-Pi under QEMU.
Use the `baremetal` channel.
We'll schedule other calls as progress is being made.

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Provide access to the UPB server (wasp).

RV: Test ARM on UPB server.

MB: Work on getting Unikraft running with R-Pi platform in QEMU.
