---
datetime: 2021-12-15T14:30:00+01:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - CristiV
  - RazvanD
  - PaulV
  - PaulU
  - Simon
  - Marc
---

### Agenda

* Initial steps for Hyper-V and VMware support

### Discussions

MR: There was a stub you could install on the Hyper-V.

PV: There is a command support to control it: start and stop.

PV: You need PowerShell.
There is also a GUI interface for it.

PV: You have a GUI, add VMs, add devices, select the ISO.

CV: WSL2 is based on Hyper-V.

SK: It should be used with GUI: running the image.

CV: From what I've seen, Hyper-V has a lot of options in the GUI.
It has a lot of stuff in it.
You need to know how to work with it.

CV: Both VMware and VirtualBox have an enterprise version.

SK: If VMware server deployment is different, then we want to use the server / cloud deployment one.

SK: Maybe we could look into OSv because they have support for VMware.

MR: From MS there is a documentation for Hyper-V.
There should be one from VMware.

SK: There aren't many OS developers that we can draw inspiration from.

PV: Start from the KVM boot code in implementing initial Hyper-V and VMware support.

MR: EFI support is the first task for VMware.
Hyper-V has a legacy version and a new version.

SK: We need the procedure to boot in VMware.

SK/MR: The first task is to be able to boot.
The starting point should be KVM.

MR: I did work on integrating GDB in Hyper-V.

PU: I saw that IncludeOS has support for VMware.
Maybe it has support for Hyper-V.

SK: Other OSes are useful to look into.
If the license are compatible, it's OK to use FreeBSD and other OSes.

### TODOs and Decisions

* PU/PV: Start from KVM platform code.
* PU/PV: Look for BSD-compatible license code: FreeBSD, IncludeOS, OSv.
* RD: Arrange periodic call from January 2022.
