---
title: "VMM Meeting, October 26, 2022"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2022-10-26T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- PaulV
- PaulU
- Marc
- AndreiT
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Firecracker

AT: I created the network driver draft PR: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/610

AT: I worked with the entry point for multiboot.
I'm getting the error on `lcpu`.

MR: I need to benchmark an application with Firecraker.
So I have support network, but I need the network device.

AT: There is a feature on Firecraker.
It needs more pages allocated for it work.

### Hyper-V

PV: I created a draft PR for Hyper-V: https://github.com/unikraft/plat-hyperv/pull/1
It consists of everything required for Hyper-V

RD: There is a student (Răzvan Pricop) who wants to work on the Hyper-V side.
Likely on a driver such as the one for block devices.

PV: Right now only the vmbus device driver is supported.
Anything else is not supported.

PV: There is a storage device and some timers.

MR: A list of device that are currently not supported would be useful to make a decision which device we want to support next?

PV: I don't know if there is supported for DPDK.
They will have to be ported from FreeBSD.

PV: DPDK is not-multithreaded, uses poll mode.

PV: There is an issue with the `make`-based build for Hyper-V.
I'm using `kraft` and it works.

### VMware

PU: I got it to build: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/614

PU: The PCI device is not configured properly.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AT: Test the network support with Firecracker for today.

AT: Continue investigation on the boot arguments integration.

PV: Create GitHub issue with the `make`-based problem.

PV: Create a fork of `app-helloworld` and `app-http-reply` with the updates to make them working on Hyper-V.
Provide links and instructions in the Hyper-V PR.

PV: Provide list of devices that are currently not supported.

PV: Continue work on networking driver.

RD: Talk to Răzvan Pricop to reproduce Hyper-V build work.

PU: Create a fork of `app-helloworld` with the updates to make it work on VMware.
Provide links and instructions in the VMware PR.

PU: Provide instructions on what version of Unikraft should this be based on.

PU: Investigate PCI device issue.
