---
datetime: 2022-04-06T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - Simon
  - PaulV
  - Marc
  - AndreiT
  - Felipe
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: I looked into the libukparam to parse Firecraker.

SK: We used that to separate arguments of the kernel from the arguments of the application.

PV: I was able to run something that crashes.

PV: I was able to run Intel Cloud Hypervisor.
It runs with Linux, but not with Unikraft.
I'm looking into enabling the serial port to get debugging information.

PV: I tried to use GRUB, but it didn't work.

SK: Have a direct boot with Linux, and then try to do that with Unikraft.

SK: Try it with Unikraft first.

PV: I'm enabling the Synthetic Interrupt Controller and ring buffers.
There is a structure (softc).
On Unikraft I don't have that.
It storess state of the VM.

PV: There is a function `vm_attach()` that does this, connected to the `vmbus`.

PV: For networking, there is a DPDK driver for Hyper-V.

SK: Is there a documentation on the driver model for Hyper-V?

PV: There is a vmbus communication channel.

SK: uknetdev was inspired by DPDK.
So it makes sense to look into that.

PV: The BSD part is more generic, it supports more devices.

AT: I solved the `--` issue with Firecracker.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Work on integrating the `virtio-mmio` work from Paul: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/250

PV: Solve the issue with the interrupt / communication channel.

PV: Look into BSD implementation and the DPDK driver code.

PU: Work on getting vmxnet3 working.

RD: Get everyone to do a draft PR of their work.

RD: Blog post for Unikraft booting on different VMMs support (VMware, Firecracker, Hyper-V).
