---
title: "VMM WG, November 23, 2022"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2022-11-23T08:00:30+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Marc
- PaulU
- PaulV
- RăzvanP
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps
- Blog posts

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Firecracker

AT to provide updates on the `#vmm-general` channel.

### Hyper-V

PV: I added an instruction on how to run `helloworld` on Hyper-V.
I created a fork of `app-helloworld`.
I created an ISO file to be used to boot the application.
You need to use the serial port.

PV: I updated the PR for Hyper-V.

PV: I continued hammering.
I don't have anything that works yet.

PV: I'm porting the networking driver from DPDK.
This is using the Linux vmbus.
I started porting the FreeBSD vmbus driver.

PV: For the storage driver, there is no support in DPDK, from my survey.

PV: When I use what I currently created, it crashes.

### VMware

PU: `vmxnet3` only works with PCI express

PU: I continued working on `e1000`.
It works on PCI.

PU: I think I might be able to do something in the weekend.
I think we can get the initialization part compilable.
The ability to get the MAC address.

PU: `e1000` is ported from FreeBSD.

MR: I asked Andrii about the PCI express, it was not the case.

PU: Is there a branch where I can see Andrii's work.

### Other

MR: We are currently discussing platform rearchitecting.
Will be back with updates to use for organizing the platform code for new platforms.

RD: We want to do blog posts on VMM support for Unikraft.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RP: Redo the `app-helloworld` setup for Hyper-V.

PV: Continue hammering on the Hyper-V networking side.

MR: Paste link to Andrii's work on mmio.

PU: Continue work on porting the `e1000` driver.

AT: Provide updates on your Firecraker work.

RD: Ping PU, PV, AT about VMM blog posts.

Next meeting: Wednesay, December 7, 2022, 08:30am CET.

Provide short update on `#vmm-general` channel on Tuesday, November 292, 2022.
