---
datetime: 2022-05-11T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - AndreiT
  - PaulU
  - PaulV
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: I started solving the secondary issues.
I looked into the `unhandled interrupt` message.
Firecracker sends two interrupts.

AT: I sent a ping from host to guest.
I then saw that for the second doesn't write data.
`virtqueue_interrupt` calls `virtqueue_has_data`.

AT: There is an issue with the parsing of the data type.

PU: I wrote my raport for SSS.

PU: I made progress on vmxnet3.
In the DPDK implementation they use the RTE framework that implements networking support.
There is a `rte_netbuf` structure that has an equivalent to `uk_netbuf`.
`rte_netbuf` uses more fields; I need to figure out these.

PV: I can communicate with the hypervisor.
I get a channel offering message.
Hypervisor sends a message for each virtual device, and opens a channel for each device.

PV: I don't know how to get a handle to the device.

PU: For VMware, the PCI bus 0 can be added new devices with new buses.
Then you can investigate the PCI bus tree.

PU: If you install Ubuntu and run `lspci -tvv`.

PV: It doesn't show anything.

PV: There is a thread that does polling.
It is commented out at this point.

PV: It would be a good feature to have a task queue implementation.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Ask questions on why 2nd interrupt is delivered.

AT: Parse data properly for the 4K to 4096.

PU: Investigate the `rte_netbuf` and how to map that to the `uk_netbuf`.

PU: Provide link to PV regarding the PCI bus interconnection.

PV: Post message with current status on the `vmm-general` channel.

PV: Document further regarding the networking interface for Hyper-V.
