---
title: "VMM/Hypervisor Support, July 15, 2022"
tags: unikraft, vmm, firecracker, hyper-v, vmware
datetime: 2022-07-15T17:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- PaulU
- PaulV
- Marc
- Răzvan
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status updates
- Availability and timeline for each track
- Blog posts for Firecracker, VMware and Hyper-V support.

## :closed_book: Discussions

PV: I'm planning to complete my thesis in September 2022.

PV: I was able to register my driver into Unikraft.
I'm not yet able to send and receive packets.

PV: I have a network interface.
The next steps are to implement the actual implementation.

PV: I need to work to get a status.

PV: I'm using the DPDK driver for networking.
For `vmbus` I'm using the FreeBSD one.

PV: I need to the channels from the FreeBSD driver and feed it to the DPDK driver.
And then you need to glue lwip and drivers.

PV: Hyper-V uses RNDIS drivers to encapsulate date.
I will use the 
I need to allocate buffers and connect the pieces together.

PV: 8-10 hours / week

MR: What devices are working?

PV: vmbus is working.

PV: The serial driver is working.

PV: I'm using a timer, it's a register counter

PU: I'm in the process of moving around.
I will resume work after that.

PU: 8 hours / week

PU: I didn't have anything that compiles for VMware.
I only tested on Workstation.

PU: I was working on networking support.
I'm using DPDK as reference.
I was looking into simplifyig the DPDK structures.

PV: It takes a specific structure for your buffer.

PU: The network buffer in DPDK is more complex.

PV: On that, I recall Marc suggested we skip anything that's not used by Unikraft.

RD: We will resume meetings in September 2022.
By that time, we keep in contact on Discord.

RD: The plan is to have blog posts for each of the three hypervisors / VMMs.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

PV: Setup repository + README file to replicate current state of HyperV work.

PU: After succesfully compiling VMware networking support, setup repository + README file to replicate current state of HyperV work.

PV: Create blog post for Hyper-V work.

PV: Create blog post for Firecracker work.

PV: Create blog post for VMware work.

RD: Install VMware ESX in the university.
