---
datetime: 2022-03-16T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - PaulU
  - PaulV
  - AndreiT
  - Marc
  - Simon
  - RazvanD
---

### Agenda

Status update for VMM support (Hyper-V, VMware, Firecraker)

### Discussions

AT: I managed to boot Unikraft on 0.4.
A simple hello world.
I'm trying to boot on 0.7.

SK: There's likely a requirement for virtio inside the guest for virtio support.

AT: I'm at the point where Firecraker receives a KVM_EXIT because a memset().
It's in trap init.
I used print debugging.

MR: As soon as the traps are enabled, GDB becomes available.

SK: Tienjun is working at LF + VMware.

PU: I've looked on networking support for VMware.
I was going for vmxnet3.
There is support for this device in FreeBSD.

SK: Not sure if VMware does weird things to simplify drivers.

PV: I booted with Hyper-V v1 + UEFI + Multiboot v1.
On Multiboot v2 it fails, but that also fails on KVM.

PV: Multiboot v1 + Hyper-V v2 it doesn't work.
It stops on the timer.

PV: I don't know how to read the wall clock.

In BSD there is a main function that reads the timer + a fallback to a reference timer.

PV: There is a device that uses the vmbus.
That will be required for drivers as well.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Show the line where the memset happens and the arguments.

AT: What guest support do we require for networking in Firecracker.

SK: If there is a PCI device + virtio device attached to it.
If something is present, then that works, if not, then we need to do something about that.

PU: Look into vmxnet3 implementation in FreeBSD.

PU: Look ino the warm work on Unikraft.

PU: Next step is get the device enumeration.

PV: Implement VMbus timers.
