---
datetime: 2022-04-20T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - AndreiT
  - PaulU
  - RazvanD
  - Simon
  - Marc
  - Felipe
  - PaulV
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: I made the changes for Firecracker and MMIO.

AT: Right now I'm having the issue with the Firecracker and MMIO interface.

AT: The error is that Unikraft is hanging.
You can only kill it from the outside.

SK: Did you enable all debugging messages?

AT: Yes, all are enabled.

MR: Do you know which register is register 0x28?

SK: There is something wrong with the register definition or some lack of proper mapping.

SK: I suggest, in the virtionet driver, to add some debug print, what addresses are returned when you query the return bit.

AT: Firecracker doesn't have use for the 0x28 register.

MR: The error message coming from Firecracker is printed to the console, or is it printed by Unikraft?

SK/AT: It's printed to the console.

AT: Look into the MTU issue and debug print what is printed from the device.
Is it zeros or is it anything else?

PU: I worked on writing the driver.
I want to have something working this weekend.

PV: I'm porting the code on Unikraft for the vmbus communication channel.
I'm porting from FreeBSD.
I'm porting some condition variables.

MR: For condition variables you could use a lock provided the wait queues, this is something I did some weeks ago.

PV: There are some macros that I'm using.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Do debug print on the information

PU: Continue work on the vmxnet3 driver.
Aim to complete it in a week's time.

PV: Provide buildable implementaition by May 5th, 2022.

RD: Reply to Tiejun's email regarding the VMware event.
