---
datetime: 2022-04-27T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - AndreiT
  - PaulU
  - PaulV
  - Simon
  - Felipe
  - Marc
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: At this point Unikraft receives packets and doesn't trigger events on the transmit side.

SK: On the PCI implementation we use the legacy mode.

SK: We tried to move the device on PCI, but that doesn't work.

SK: We then moved to the mmio and it hangs.

SK: Marc joined to call to see if the page table is working.

SK: This could be interrupted by the KVM module and not forwarding it to Firecracker.
Or in Firecracker itself.

SK: The KVM module handles some stuff.

SK: The first point is printing the entry point in Firecraker for the packets.

FH: For virtio-net OSv implemented the modern mode for virtio.
That was a strategy to figure out whether we missed something.

SK: We need to figure out whether the notification is ending up.

New meeting taking place tomorrow, Thursday, April 28, 11am CEST.

PU: Things are more complex than expected.
I converted everything DPDK-specific; port calls to Unikraft (such as memory calls).
I still have compilation problem.

PV: I'm still converting the code.
I'm replacing the atomic API from BSD with the one from Unikraft.
There is a part where a thread is started and scheduled.
They were using some synchronized locks that I replaced with mutexes in Unikraft.

The first thing I have to implemented is a task_queue structure.
This is part of the BSD implementation for the communication channel bus.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Debug

PU: Continue the DPDK work for VMware.

FH: I'll ping Tienjun on how it went.

PV: 

PV
