---
title: "VMM Meeting, October 12, 2022"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2022-10-12T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- PaulV
- PaulU
- Marc
- AndreiT
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

AT: I was at publishing the PR for networking part and one for the booting part.

AT: We needed to the have that in conjunction in the networking.

MR: The change in the boot parameter is already upstream.

RD: We want to have draft PRs submitted for the plat rearch discussion.

AT: I was able to boot nginx with ramfs.


PV: Looking to make networking work with Hyper-V.
I took parts from DPDK.
I'm using a driver from FreeBSD.
This driver has a different way in storing those channels.
This is using a vmbus interface that you use to query.

PV: The goal is to get those channel and map those channels to queues and send those to Hyper-V.

PV: Need to do some hammering.


PU: I was working on vmxnet3.
I took the DPDK driver and adapted it to our internal data.

PU: I was dropping extra fields from the DPDK driver.

PU: I wasn't able to get it to build.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AT: Create draft PR with networking update for Firecraker support.

AT: Adjust the Unikraft boot phase with Marc's update.

AT: Rebase the Firecracker code on the current version of Unikraft.
Submit draft PR.

RD: Talk to Simon about creating repositories for VMware and Hyper-V as external platform repositories.

PV: Hammer the mapping of vmbus channels to queues.

PV: Move Hyper-V platform folder as external platform folder.

PU: Find out more about the variables mapping between DPDK and internal Unikraft data structure.

PU: Create a separate folder for VMware as a platform.
Add configuration to select VMware as part of `make menuconfig`.
Move folder as external platform folder.
