---
datetime: 2022-03-21T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - Marc
  - RazvanD
  - AlexandraP
---

### Agenda

Kick-off SSH on Unikraft for AWS

### Discussions

MR: There are crashes when using Unikraft on AWS.

MR: Debugging is difficult.
There is a serial console, but it's lagging and difficult to use.

MR: We want to have a separate interface both from debugging and for client connection to the image to collect information.

MR: In the web interface you have the ability to connect to the instance via a local connection (SSH connection).
You can then interact with it in a normal SSH session.

MR: The idea is to get more information from a Unikraft image.
Connect to Unikraft via SSH.
The web interface in AWS will then work.
And the debugging information will be present in the SSH client.

MR: The customer has the possibility to see what is the status of the image.

RD: So we have a dual motivation: debugging and customer connection.

MR: Windows does support SSH, so this could happen with Windows as well?

AP: I don't know about Windows, we're using internal tools to connect to VMs.

AP: You can get the console via AWS CLI?

MR: Yes, but as I said, it's very slow.

AP: The SSH connection would be read-only to Unikraft for starters, right?

MR: Have a ring buffer that's configurable.
So you have some history.

MR: We have a ukdebug interface for debugging information.
This is presented to standard output.

MR: Then we have output presented by printf.
This output you want to show to the SSH console.

MR: A possibility to hook in this chain is to create an alternative stdout which has the buffering implemented and that could be connected to SSH.
At the beginning it could be an unencrypted connection.

AP: How are you doing testing right now?

MR: Currently, the console is the only way you can debug it.
The only way is to have a dirty interface for this.

MR: You can create custom headers for reading and writing.
We would have to replace the file descriptor so that output is redirected from the default stdout to the buffering.

MR: The first step would be to create an alternative stdout with some buffer space.
And use the system calls we have to use the file descriptor.

MR: Then the next step is to create a network socket (plain text).

MR: First, work locally.

RD: Create a diagram with your understanding of the project/
We'll discuss it.
If everyone's on the same page, we'll then move to the next task: implementing a ring buffer-based output collection mechanism.

### TODOs and Decisions

AP: Digest information from the discussion.
Draw diagram of your understanding of the project.
Submit diagram on the `#aws` channel.

AP: Ask question on the `#aws` channel.

RD: Talk to Alexandra about possible meeting timeslots for progress updates.
