---
datetime: 2022-03-30T12:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - Simon
  - PaulV
  - PaulU
  - AndreiT
  - Felipe
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: I checked how Firecracker sends the MMIO address.
This happens at boot time.

AT: They have a base address where they start.

SK: Is there a second place, such as a shared memory.

AT: I actually picked it up from Unikraft.

AT: virtio_mmio.device=... and it's the comma separated for multiple devices.

SK: The virtio register driver needs to register this to uklibparam.
And then you can parse the comma separated list.

PU: I recall trying to use libukparam.
I didn't figure out how to use it.

PU: PRs are OK for virtio-mmio.
On x86 we didn't have support for DT.

SK: There are guest physical addresses that are handed over.
It may require some mapping of memory addresses.
First step is going to integrate uklibparam.

PU: I did a lspci and there is a VMware PCI bridge and VMware ports.
Behind that is USB controller, Ethernet controller.
In OSDev Wiki documentation on device enumeration.

PU: I didn't get any PCI devices enumerated on Unikraft.

SK: There is some work from Hugo on listing PCI devices.

PU: I'm getting errors from pthread-embedded and newlib.

PU: I switched the order of the libraries and it works.
Thanks for the tip.

PV: I was using a pointer to a function that was not initialization.
I'm reading directly from the MSR register.
I changed the function and now it works.

PV: I now started work on the initializing the synthetic interrupt controller.
I need to specify the IRQ number for the interrupt controller.
This is required to communicate with the 

PV: The hypervisor puts a message in the message page and then triggers and event to the virtual machine.

### TODOs and Decisions

PV: Check intel cloud-hypervisor.

AT: Integrate uklibparam for virtio-mmio parsing.

AT: Discuss with Marc about mapping physical MMIO addresses.

PU: Continue work on PCI enumeration.

PU: Get WAMR support on Unikraft.

PV: Continue work on Hyper-V.
