---
datetime: 2022-02-18T15:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - PaulU
  - PaulV
  - CristiV
  - AndreiT
  - Marc
  - RazvanD
---

### Agenda

Status update for VMM support (Hyper-V, VMware, Firecraker)

### Discussions

PV: I took the idea from FreeBSD.

PV: The helloworld Unikraft image boots in Hyper-V v1.

MR: Did you try using v2 and using UEFI to boot from RAM?

PV: On VMBUS, when the VM boots, it receives 109 IRQ.
The hypervisor notifies the VM. In the VM handler you start talking to the hypervisor to discover devices.
Each virtual device provides a channel as a shared page between the hypervisor and the VM.

MR: My concern is that getting v1 work may be duplicate work for the v2.

MR: It might make sense to boot with GRUB + UEFI to have v2 VM started.
And then look into device initialization.

MR: Ensure that you don't have to start over with v2.

MR: Booting with UEFI + v2 it could work.

PU: I used the Multiboot2 + helloworld Unikraft image for VMware.

PU: I tried to run an HTTP server.
I get a weird error.

RD: Install ESX version of VMware.

PU: I'm using IncludeOS for documentation.

PU: First see what device model does VMware use.

MR: The next step should be block devices.

AT: I started looking into the patches from the Eurosys paper.

AT: Start a debugger to see if Unikraft actually starts.

What is the GRUB boot overhead?

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Install ESX version of VMware on a UPB instance.

AT: Start in debugging mode with Firecracker to make sure it actually works.

PU: Look into the VMware device model.
Look into block device support.

PV: Check if Hyper-V v2 boots with UEFI (+GRUB).

PV: Look for device initialization.
