---
datetime: 2022-06-08T09:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - vm
participants:
  - Andrei
  - PaulV
  - Marc
  - Simon
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates on VMM tracks

### Discussions

AT: I found why there are more interrupts sent on Firecracker.
I asked on the Firecraker support forum.

AT/MR: This also happens on Linux.

MR: I think it's OK to just ignore it.

AT: I worked on having mmio work both on QEMU and Firecracker.

MR: In the `qemu-guest` you have an option to specify the device type.

MR: It would be good to have other parameters for mmio work.

MR: Wait until you have the x86 SMP.
I separated the multiboot entry from the SMP initialization part.
This is cleaner.

SK: I'm wondering if the Firecraker platform could be integrated in the main repository.

SK: Andrei could look into the Config.uk menu to still compile them both.

MR: I think we may get conflicts with the parts that we want to reuse, connected to the boot process.

AT: I have some changes to the linker scripts to be able to build both for QEMU and Firecracker.

PV: I'm looking into the networking part in Unikraft to have a better idea of how networking works: lwip, uknetdev, netbuf.
I looked to see how to port the networking driver for Hyper-V.

PV: One option is to use the driver from DPDK.
The other is the FreeBSD one.
There are both BSD licensed.

PV: The part receiving packets is difficult: FreeBSD is using threads, DPDK is only using polling.
They are using different mbuf structures.

There is another structure in lwip (pbuf) in LWIP.

SK: Yes, the metadata for both structures has to use the same allocation.

SK: You should only focus on the netbuf structure, no need to look into LWIP structure.

SK: Focuse on one queue (transmit and receive).

Take the burst function from DPDK and take just one packet, don't loop over.
Take the part for initialization queues, the way descriptors work.

### TODOs and Decisions

AT: Create a PR for the Firecracker + linker script updates.

MR: Provide block device updates.

PV: Continue work on porting network driver for Hyper-V.
