---
title: "VMM WG, December 7, 2022"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2022-11-07T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- PaulU
- PaulV
- RăzvanP
- Marc
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Issues Running on Hyper-V

RP: I managed to build Paul's version of `helloworld` ISO.
I configured Hyper-V on my host.
I created a VM with the Hyper-V virtual manager.
I started it with the ISO.
It's just a blank screen.
I tried to use a named pipe to get information from the VM but it didn't work.

PV: Did you run `menuconfig`?

RP: I just changed the directories from your side to my.

MR: What you could test is boot a Linux live CD and see if the serial connection work?

PV: I can send an ISO to see if it's working with you.

RP: The Linux CD works.
I didn't check the named pipe.

### Hyper-V

PV: Still on the initialization part.
I've commented out more code.

PV: The hypervisor sends a list of channels for each device.
The first step is to add a buffer to the channel.

PV: After this channel works, you start sending commands to the device.

PV: There is a primary channel you receive from the hypervisor.
Then you have subchannels.
They are by default allocating `128` pages of memory.
I'm changing it to use `1` page of memory.

MR: So now you are trying to assigning this page (buffer) to each subchannel to be able to communicate with it.

PV: Right now it crashes.

MR: Do you use the paging feature?

PV: I'm using the `uk_plat_virt_to_phys()` function.

PV: I created a wrapper (`hyperv_memalloc()` on top of `palloc()`).

PV: When you call `vmbus_channel_open_br()` (`br` - buffer ring).

### VMware

PU: I made progress on `e1000`.
I have the PCI interaction.

PU: I can see in Unikraft that I am able to get the MAC address.

PU: I now have to configure the receive and send queues.

PU: I have to define buffers and use a similar approach to virtio-net.

### Firecracker

AT: I worked on the `vsock` implementation.
I'm rebasing it and adapting to the `posix-socket` API.

MR: It's not specific to Firecracker.
It's a useful feature for Unikraft.

AT: Submit talk for FOSDEM.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RP: Try to see if a named pipe.

RP: Try Unikraft ISO from Paul.

PV: Continue working on the buffer rings / channels for Hyper-V.

AT: Submit talk for FOSDEM.

AT: Continue `vsock` integration work.

PV/AT/PU: Talk to Andrei Mutu about blog posts.

PU: Work on integrating buffers / queues in the VMware work.
