---
title: "VMM WG, June 21, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-06-21T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- PaulU
- RăzvanD
- PaulV
- Marc
- TeoTiron
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Hyper-V

PV: I had two issue with my compiler version.

PV: After we changed the GCC version, we had the same issue on TeoTiron's issue.

PV: The workaround that I said is not working.

MR: Maybe there is a layout image.

### VMware

PU: I worked on the thesis.

PU: I used a trick to make `e1000` faster.
I added more network descriptors.
This improved the performance of `e1000` by 20%.
This however downgraded the performance of `vmnet3`.
Not sure what is causing this.

PU: I used ESXi for Unikraft.
I tried `e1000` and `vmxnet3` on ESXi.
`vmxnet3` works.
`e1000` almost works.
I can't use a connection from another VM to a Unikraft VM.
I can do it from the host to the Unikraft VM.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

TT: Replicate the Hyper-V setup to get to the same networking issue that PaulV gets.

TT: Investigate the issue with `Hello, world!` not being printed on the non-debug version of Unikraft.

TT: Look into porting SQLite with Hyper-V.

PV: Provide instructions on replicating the Hyper-V networking issue.

RD: Schedule a call to investigate Hyper-V network-related issue, aftere replication.

PU: Focus on completing thesis.

PU: At some point, investigate further the e1000 issue on VMware ESXi.

PU: At some point, investigate fine tuning of parameters to compare KVM to VMware.

RD: Discuss with Marc, Michalis, Simon, about separate `plat-vmware` and `plat-hyperv` repositories.
