---
title: "VMM WG, May 3, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-05-03T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- PaulU
- RăzvanD
- PaulV
- Marc
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Hyper-V

PV: I'm able to boot FreeBSD.
I added new debug messages.
I'm now porting a dump function from DPDK and check if the behavior matching.

PV: FreeBSD is the original driver and it was ported in DPDK.
Some offsets were updated, so I can't use the DPDK driver on FreeBSD and viceversa.

PV: There are multiple wrappers (three layers).
I will check all three layers and look for differences between FreeBSD and Unikraft.

### VMware

PU: The main thing is the comparison, but this time using UDP.
`vmxnet3` is about 2 times better than `e1000`.

PU: I've continued the rebasing, I'm now on version 0.12.
I had to revert some commits.

PU: I have an initial draft.

RD: Look into Nginx, but only if it's easy to do.
Otherwise, you continue the rebasing to the latest Unikraft version and port / test Nginx afterwards.

PU: Regarding block support, there is a module called `vmblock` in the `open-vm-tools` GitHub repository.
It's 700 lines of code.

### vsock

AT: I'm reimplemeting some parts of the `vsock` interface.

MR: The `vsock` should be internal.

AT: I need to make sure I'm able to do the benchmark and that the application doesn't hangs.

AT: Currently, after sending some messages it simply hangs and then it stops.

AT: I'm using the latest version of Unikraft.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Provide manpower info on Hyper-V.

RD: Get in contact with MS and VMware to provide support for our work.

PV: Dump all three layers of packet data / metadata on FreeBSD and Unikraft.
See differences / similarities between them.

RD: Review initial draft of VMware blog post.

PU: Continue the rebase of VMware support with Unikraft.

PU: Low-priority, if it's easy: run Nginx with VMware.

PU: Check the license of `vmblock` in `open-vm-tools`.
If GPL-licensed, look into some other part, such as FreeBSD.

AT: Create a draft PR with `vsock`.

AT: Get past the issue with benchmark using `vsock`.
