---
title: "VMM WG, April 12, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-04-12T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- PaulU
- RăzvanD
- PaulV
- Marc
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Hyper-V

PV: I was able to build DPDK for Ubuntu Linux.
I was not able to test it.
I tried to bind it an interface, I got only errors.
I'm not sure about the steps in the Microsoft website, about a PCI address we needed to find.

PV: There should be two devices when you run ifconfig.
One device for VFIO and the other device is a normal interface.
Only one device appears.
It appears I need another VFIO interface.

PV: The next step is to get the VFIO interface up.

### VMware

PU: I tried to rebase on top of the latest version of Unikraft.
I'm closer to version 0.11.

PU: I started the blog post.
I will create a draft PR.

PU: Performance of `vmxnet3` is not much better than `e1000`.

### vsock

AT: I solved the driver issue on `vsock`.
It's running on version `0.10`.

AT: There are a few buggy things in the `vsock` API.
I added a custom HTTP reply.

MR: You should test `nginx`, `iperf` to test `vsock`.

MR: You can also use [`wrk2`](https://github.com/giltene/wrk2) that measures latency.

MR: Make sure you pin the processes to a cores, using `taskset`.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

PV: 1st priority: Look into making DPDK work with the Ubuntu VM;
make VFIO interfaces work.

PV: 2nd priority: Make DPDK work with QEMU Linux VM, to see if it works.

PV: 3rd: Try a FreeBSD VM with DPDK with Hyper-V.

RD: Talk to VMware contact about `vmxnet` requirements.

RD: Restart the `pr708` system running VMware.

PU: Investigate the issue with getting version of Unikraft.

PU: Create a draft with the blog post.

PU: Get requirements for `vmxnet`.

PU: Test a Linux VM with `vmxnet` and `e1000` on VMware.

AT: Create a PR with `vsock` implement Unikraft.

AT: Move forward with getting this working with the latest version

AT: Test `vsock` support on Unikrat with Firecracker using `nginx`, `iperf`, `wrk2`.
