---
title: "VMM WG, March 8, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-03-08T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- PaulU
- RăzvanD
- PaulV
- RăzvanP
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Hyper-V

PV: I'm able to get the hardware address of the virtual NIC.

PV: In LWIP it tries to get the network parameters.
I don't return anything, I return NULL.

PV: I'm working on sending packets.

RP: I'm still in a documentation phase.
I realized that BSD part was a layer between the host and device.
But it's actually between the OS and the 

RP: I already did the discovery.
I need to send an initial message to the device via `vmbus`.
I need to use SCSI to send a message to the device.

RP: I don't know about the way the message works.

RP: I'm looking into the FreeBSD driver, called `storevsc`.

MR: You need to check if the data is correct.
Have you looked into a raw disk image that you can read from.

RP: Right now, I'm at a point of 

MR: Is the discovery working only for the SCSI controller, not for the disks.

RP: Yes, it's just the discovery of the SCSI controller.
From my understanding, the SCSI controller should be mapped to one disk.

MR: You need to get the ID of the disk by interacting with the SCSI controller.

MR: You can have multiple devices attached to one controller in the Hyper-V Manager I have on my system.

### VMware

PU: I have the send and receive working with VMware.

PU: After reducing the debugging messaging and improved the running time.

PU: I tested and at some point `curl` stops working.

PU: I was able to replicate the bug by using the `localport` argument to `curl`.

PU: The first message works, but the second fails with errno `45`.

PU: This is happening with `e1000` and VMware and `virtio` + KVM.

PU: Because it happens on both platforms, I investigated more.
The socket goes into different states.

PU: `lwip` tries to reuse the port and it fails, because `SO_REUSEPORT` is missing.

PU: There is an option `LWIP_SO_LINGER` that we can enable.
We would get an error message.

PU: I wanted to update the Unikraft version I was using.
Somehow, when I tried, nothing worked anymore.
The sending and receiving will fail silently.

PU: Another action item: `e1000` is working in polling mode into interrupt mode.

MR: Then we should probably get to `vmxnet`, that has better performance.

### vsock

AT: I was troubleshooting the function with the request from Unikraft as a server.

AT: I fixed this.
It now works on QEMU-PCI.

AT: There were some asserts there and there were no debug messages about that.

AT: Test on Firecracker.

AT: Create draft PR.

AT: Update the interface to `posix-socket`.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RP: Investigate the way you can access the virtual disk from the host.

RP: Send message on the `vmbus` to the SCSI controller.

AT: Test vsock on Firecraker.

AT: Create draft PR with current vsock implementation.

PV: Make sending / receiving work with Hyper-V network implementation.

PU: Create issue on LWIP.

PU: Test single connection: send plenty of packets on it.
