---
title: "VMM WG, May 17, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-05-17T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- PaulU
- PaulV
- Marc
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Hyper-V

PV: I took some pieces of code on FreeBSD to see the flow.
There was a query executed for offloading capabilities.
In Unikraft we had the same behavior.

PV: Then I tried to send a wrong query.
I didn't get an error message.
I used a wrong address.

PV: I'm receiving packages, but these are actual Ethernet packages, not replies to my queries.

MR: Do you get these packages even before the configuration?

PV: This means my RX filter is not executed?

MR: If there are still queries that you can do at that point.
If it works at some point but then it doesn't work.

MR: Did you check the event log to see if the hypervisor tells something?

MR: The general debugging advice is to check all your assumptions.
And then hopefully locate at least where the problem is: in your code or the state of the system.

PV: I can try to see the wrong message right after the hardware query.

### VMware

I made no progress on the VMware side, regarding the `e1000` drivers.
I'm now on 0.12.

There is a commit that adds a size in the buddy allocator.
The memory space only shifts by 8 bytes.
Commit link: https://discord.com/channels/762976922531528725/954281638722945024/1108289737246126090

I will check all allocations.

MR: If it's just adding a field in the metadata, then add another one.
See if it's some sort of alignment.
See when it works or when it doesn't work.

MR: Then see if you can change values to see when it works and when it doesn't work.

PU: There are some build warnings that I would also want to fix.

### vsock

You can check the OASIS for the list of devices: https://docs.oasis-open.org/virtio/virtio/v1.2/cs01/virtio-v1.2-cs01.html#x1-1780003

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Think about about a virtio discussion.

RD: Ask for status from Andrei on `virtio-vsock` support.

RD: Talk to someone about Hyper-V support.

RD: Talk to VMware contacts on `vmxnet`.

PV: Try the faulty query in Unikraft, on FreeBSD.

PV: Try to check all assumptions.
Aim to pinpoint the location of the core issue.

PU: Try different values for the new member in the bbuddy allocator.
See what works and what doesn't.
