---
title: "VMM WG, May 10, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-05-010T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- PaulU
- PaulV
- Marc
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### VMware

PU: I shared on the #plat-vmware channel the vmblock source code in FreeBSD, but I am unsure if that license is okay, if you can have please a look MR

PR: Almost finished rebasing. I have just one more issue with a commit, part of pull 458, that I have to revert in order for e1000 to work. Currently, e1000 fails silently. I can see in Unikraft's output that it sends the initial ARP message, but cannot see that in Wireshark.

MR: The feature introduced in that PR is for ARM and even so is not used yet and should not affect.

MR: Wondering if it is because memory alignment changed.

MR: Could also be one of those cases when changing some parts of code just makes the issue visible, but the root case are not the changes themselves, but they rather just surface it. Example with race conditions.

PU: Could be. Had a similar issue. Will investigate further

PU: Didn't got to test NGINX. Will try this week.

### Hyper-V

PV: Guest gets stuck when sending the first messsage to the hypervisor. It's a "set" message.

PV: Turns out the message I'm sending is a bit different because it has offloading and rss turned on. i have to try to disable offloading.

MR: Usually offloading feature is turned on. you would have to disable it.

PV: I don't get a response to set message. I do get an ACK for the message, but not any response, thus making my code to hang.

MR: Did you try to send intentionally a malformed message. I'm wondering if Hyper-V would send you any response such as an error code.

PV: No, will take a look into that

MR: Is only this particular "set" instruction that is not working?

pv: At the moment, I have tried to send only this one message.


## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Provide manpower info on Hyper-V.

RD: Get in contact with MS and VMware to provide support for our work.

PV: Try sending malformed message to HyperV. Investigate further.

RD: Review initial draft of VMware blog post.

PU: Investigate further the issue with rebase

PU: Low-priority, if it's easy: run Nginx with VMware.
