---
title: "VMM WG, March 15, 2023"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2023-03-15T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- AndreiT
- RăzvanD
- PaulV
- Marc
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### VMware

PU: Tested single connection by sending tons of messages.
All good.
Let it ran for more than 20 minutes and the driver handled the load perfectly.

PU: Tried to pinpoint the version of Unikraft that the e1000 driver stops working with.
Not sure what is the exact commit, but it is somewhere between v7 and v8.

PU: Submitted an issue for LWIP here: https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip/issues/31

### Hyper-V

PV: In the DPDK they were allocating some transmit queue with some descriptors.
As part of those descriptors, there were buffers.
Due to some alignment issues, I got a crash.

PV: At this point, I fixed the issue, there isn't a crash.

PV: At this point I'm sending a DHCP packet, but the driver doesn't receive.

PV: The network device is called `net-vsc` in the Hyper-V.

PV: I don't get any errors on the send side.

PV: I checked with DHCP DISCOVER, and it receives a DHCP OFFER.

### vsock

AT: I updated the Unikraft version to 0.12.

AT: There are challenges along the way for the bo

AT: In the previous version, everything was working OK.
There were changes in the virtio-bus.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

PU: Look into when `e1000` driver stops working with Unikraft.

PV: Use Wireshark / a network introspection tool to check packets and discover the issues.

AT: Look into challenges of making vsock with 0.12.
