---
title: "Documentation, December 13, 2023"
tags: unikraft, docs
datetime: 2023-12-13T08:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- docs
participants:
- TODO
---

## :dart: Agenda

- TODO

## Discussions

RN: Review from Ștefan.

RN: There are some resource that are missing.
I need to look after them.

RN: I plan to dig into the old repository.

DP: Updates to `posix-environ` and `posix-user`, both comments and README.

Be more forgiving on publishing documentation.

### Layout

We have all the contributors available in the `community/` section: https://allcontributors.org/

Thumbnails + links on Papers

Add a section called "In the News"

`Team` -> generated from https://allcontributors.org/

`In the News`, `Papers`, `Talks` -> generated from YAML files

`Hackathons` - leave them as they are

Have photos on the `Community` landing page, or some sort of gallery.

Making notes on community meetings

## TODOs and Decisions

Fix links in the community.

RN: Add links to the missing items.

RD: Update bincompat documentation with respect to catalog changes.

DP: Look into further items for documentation work.

SJ: Just did some reviews.

RD: Collect theses in a repo.
Link in community page.

RD: Provide link to Google Doc to document crawler.

RD: Review PR #332

SJ: Review PR #335

Refrain from publishing contents

AJ: Work on creating a CI publishing the contents.

RN: Add issue on stubbed timers.

RD: Review `posix-sysinfo`.

SJ: Pick another one.

RD: Pick something than fd-related libraries (such as posix-event).

Next time: Discuss about the Community section.
