---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, November 13, 2023"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2023-07-24T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Cezar
- ȘtefanJ
- AlexJ
- Marco
- Simon
- Michalis
- RaduNichita
- SergiuM
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Boot argument parsing - we require @Marco Schlumpp 's presence
* App-catalog / app-testing
* bincompat workflow
* CI

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Boot Arguments Passing

If we just pass boot arguments, they will be interpreted as command arguments.

There is in the Firecracker argument parsing to consider `--` without a placeholder.

We will fix the Firecracker.

If we don't pass any kernel arguments, we will have to do the check the other way.

SK: The `--` should be `---`?

MS: No, that won't work, and it doesn't matter.

SK: I'm thinking about corner cases.

MP: I don't feel quite comfortable with the suggestion that we always kernel arguments.

SK: Even if you don't have kernel arguments, you need to separate.

SK: argv[0] could be used as the application name

MP: Do we overwrite the application path with argv[0]?

SK: Applications always require argv[0].

MP: I would like to avoid people losing parameters.
You shouln't pass args, unless you know about.

MS: I would be in favor of overwrite argv[0] in case the user wants it.

MS: I would change the the raw command line handling to this:

`<argv0> kernel args... [-- application args]` (the `<argv0>` presence might depend on the VMM)

Examples:

* `uknetdev.ip_addr=...`: just passing the IP configuration
* `uknetdev.ip_addr=... -- http-reply --help`: passing IP config + --help to the application
* `-- http-reply --help`: passing --help to the application

SK: We can update uklibparam to stop scanning for `--`.

SK: This would need to be abstracted away with KrafKit.

MS: QEMU always passes the image to argv[0].

SK: This is a bit of platform entry code to be part of the boot protocol.
You get precompiled argv[0] or this is provided by the bootloader.

SK: Allowing a parameter to overwrite argv[0] is OK.
In the ELF Loader we parse argv[0] as argv[1].

SK: We could do in ukboot to add a `noop` parameter in `ukboot`.

### App Catalog, Bincompat Workflow, App Catalog

There is an OSS `catalog` where all applications go, doubled by a `catalog-for-maintainers` catalog.

* https://github.com/unikraft/catalog
* https://github.com/unikraft/catalog-for-maintainers

The user should not be concerned about a bincompat or a native app.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MS: Create pull request in Firecracker upstream related to the `--` placeholder item.

SK: At some point work on updating `ukboot` / `ukargparse` / `uklibparam` to the new proposal.

RD: Work on populating the catalog applications.
