---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, October 30, 2023"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2023-10-30T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Cezar
- Sergiu
- ȘtefanJ
- RăzvanD
- Jacob
- Simon
- Alex
---

## :dart: Agenda

- the default branch for repositories (`staging` or `stable`)
- boot arguments parsing; issue with --, issue with Firecracker (opened by @rhelium in several occasions)
- merging process (after PR is approved)
- merging strategy: rebase vs merge commit, usefulness for git bisect, approving commits, a commit may not work

## :closed_book: Discussions

AJ: Advantages for using `staging`:

* Creating PR against for `staging` is easier than doing for `stable`.

SK: It's ridiculous the GitHub interface.

* The difference is 3-4 months now.
* The `stable` also makes sense.

AJ: The catalog repo should build against `staging`.

AJ: We can be more relaxed on adding items to `staging`.

### Boot Argument Parsing

The command line first, followed by `--` and then the parameters still has its issues.

Having the command line arguments first and the kernel later makes sense.
But the bigger issue is compatibility with existing systems.

I saw a triple minus in certain Linux distros.
Maybe it's easier to just submit a patch to Firecracker.

### Merging Process

On one hand, it's very nice to have a merged PR.

On the other hand, we may have synchronization issues.

I discussed it with Alex and Marco to use an intermediary branch.

### Merge Strategy

RD: Martin mentioned it's difficult to `bisect` 

SK: I had a discussion with Michalis about it.

SK: You need a tool that jumps differently between commits with `git bisect`.

### if vs ifdef

Preference for using `#if` when using `CONFIG_...`

For non-value macros, use `#ifdef`.
Use `#if defined` for combined expressions.

### Header naming

SK: If I recall roughly, the macro include guard name was the include path with double underscores (without `INCLUDE`).

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

Use `staging` as the default branch for core, apps, libs.

Use `main` for misc repos.

Document the switch to a `stable` branch after the clone.

Use intermediary branch to use merge instead of close PR.
Update `governctl` accordingly.
PRs would appear as 

Look for a tool built on top of `git bisect` that helps to jump from PR to PR.
Up to discussion next time.

MP: What is the convention for naming macro include guards?

RN: Collect differention of macro include guards and post them to the `maintainers` channel.

Next meeting: Monday, November 13, 2023, 11am CET.
