---
title: "Community Leadership, January 6, 2023"
tags: unikraft, maintainers, community
datetime: 2023-01-06T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Gabi
- Cezar
- ȘtefanJ
- AndreiM
- RăzvanV
- RăzvanD
- AlexJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Resource requests
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Governance

AJ: YAML has syntax support, that is able.

GM: I don't think 

AJ: Some of this bots require us to add a configure file inside the `.github/`.

AJ: The governance repository should be used to ping when some PRs become stale: https://github.com/unikraft/governance/blob/main/labels/lifecycle.yaml

AJ: We can apply the labels.

AJ: A system that comments the code.

AJ: Using our CI/CD system, we can easily add workflows in the repositories, without modifying the `.github/` directory in the repository.

### Documentation

SJ: We started working on internal libraries (Doxygen and `README.md`).

SJ: I've been working on adding content on how to contribute to documentation, how to use `Makefile`-based build and `kraft` advanced features.

AJ: We need to generate the HTML files.
We want to extract the required files to integrate them in our documentation website.

AJ: I've been spending time updating the style of the documentation website.

AJ: It makes sense to move the hackathon contents in their own place.
This would be the place to add different tutorials: running Unikraft, using Kubernetes, the binary compatibility layer.

### Blog Post

AM: I wrestled in the last week to get the Docker setup.
I now have it working.

RD: Let's publish the hardware randomization post.

### Release

RV: Create a first pass through the documents.

RV: Create milestones for all repositories.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

TODO: Add a feature in the `governance` repository to create milestones in all repositories.

TODO: Add a feature in the `governance` repository / CI/CD to integrate static checker / linters on all repositories.

SJ/RD: Complete documentation PRs.

GM: Lead Rareș to GitHub-Discord integration.

GM: Investigate the marking of PRs / issues as stale.

RV: Create draft release notes.

RV: Start pinging people about PRs for the 0.12 release.

AM: Provide proposal for blog tagging.

AM: Publish hardware randomization post in a weeks time.

AM: Fill proposal of blog posts on the community project page: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/30/views/2

SJ: Continue leading the adding of library documentation track.
